

--- Page 1 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
The Building Regulations 2010
B
Fire safety
APPROVED DOCUMENT
Volume 2: Buildings other than dwellings
Requirement B1: Means of warning and escape
Requirement B2: Internal fi re spread (linings)
Requirement B3: Internal fi re spread (structure)
Requirement B4: External fi re spread
Requirement B5: Access and facilities for the fi re service
Regulations: 6(3), 7(2) and 38
Also includes: 2026 amendments 2029 amendments
2019 edition incorporating 2020, 2022
and 2025 amendments and forthcoming
2026 and 2029 changes – for use in England
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 2 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Main changes made by the 2020
amendments
The changes focus on the following fire safety provisions in blocks of flats (Volume 1):
a. Sprinklers:
A reduction in the trigger height from 30m to 11m.
b. Wayfinding signage for the fire service:
A new recommendation for floor identification and flat indication signage within blocks of flats
with storeys over 11m.
In addition a typographical error is corrected in both volumes. Purpose group number 2 is now
included in reference to ‘residential’ buildings in the guidance on boundaries.
The changes are set out in the May 2020 AD B amendments.
Main changes made by the 2022
amendments
The changes focus on the following fire safety provisions:
a. Ban of combustible materials in and on the external walls of buildings:
Consequential amendments following the laying of the Building (Amendment) (England)
Regulations 2022.
Updated provisions in Section 12 for residential buildings (purpose groups 1 and 2) with
a storey 11m or more in height.
b. Clarifications and corrections:
Clarification of further diagrams, further text clarifications and corrections.
The changes are set out in the June 2022 AD B amendment booklet and the November 2022
correction notice.
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 3 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Main changes made by the 2025 amendments
The changes focus on the following fire safety provisions:
a. Regulation 38 and fire safety information.
b. Removal of national classes for reaction to fire and roofs.
c. Introduction of new provisions for sprinklers in care homes.
The changes are set out in the March 2025 AD B amendments.
Changes made by the 2026 and 2029
amendments
This document also includes the 2026 amendments and 2029 amendments to Approved Document B
Volume 2, as laid out in the respective amendment booklets.
2026 amendments
The 2026 amendments take effect on 30 September 2026 for use in England. The 2019 edition incorporating
the 2020, 2022 and 2025 amendments will continue to apply where a building notice or an initial notice
has been given to, or a building control approval application with full plans made to, the relevant authority
before 30 September 2026 and either the building work to which it relates:
a. has started and is sufficiently progressed before that day; or
b. is started and is sufficiently progressed within the period of 18 months beginning on that day.
The changes focus on the following fire safety provisions:
a. A new recommendation for more than one common stair to be provided in blocks of flats with a storey
18m or more in height.
b. Building design provisions to support the use of evacuation lifts in blocks of flats.
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 4 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
2029 amendments
The 2029 amendments take effect on 2 September 2029 for use in England. The 2019 edition incorporating
the 2020, 2022, 2025 and 2026 amendments will continue to apply where a building notice or an initial
notice has been given to, or a building control approval application with full plans made to, the relevant
authority before 2 September 2029 and either the building work to which it relates:
a. has started and is sufficiently progressed before that day; or
b. is started and is sufficiently progressed within the period of six months beginning on that day.
The changes focus on the fire safety provisions regarding the removal of national classes for fire resistance.
Please note that ‘building notice’, ‘initial notice’ and ‘building control approval application with full
plans’ have the meanings given in the Building Regulations 2010. For the purpose of these transitional
arrangements, building work is to be regarded as ‘sufficiently progressed’:
a. where the building work consists of the construction of a building, when the pouring of concrete
for the permanent placement of the trench, pad or raft foundations has started, or the permanent
placement of piling has started; or
b. where the building work consists of work to an existing building, when that work has started; or
c. where the building work consists of a material change of use of a building, when work to effect that
change of use has stated.
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 5 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Introduction
What is an approved document?
Approved documents are approved by the Secretary of State and give practical guidance on common
building situations about how to meet the requirements of the Building Regulations 2010 for England.
Different approved documents give guidance on each of the technical parts of the regulations.
These are all listed in the back of the approved documents. In addition to guidance, some approved
documents include provisions that must be followed exactly, as required by regulations or where
methods of test or calculation are approved by the Secretary of State.
Each approved document covers the requirements of the Building Regulations 2010 relating to
a different aspect of building work. Building work must also comply with all other applicable
requirements of the Building Regulations 2010 and all other applicable legislation.
How is construction regulated in England?
Most building work being carried out in England must comply with
the Building Regulations 2010. The Building Regulations are made under
powers in the Building Act 1984.
Building Regulations protect the health and safety of people in and
around buildings, they also provide for energy and water conservation
and access to and use of buildings.
The Manual to the Building Regulations (references to this in the
introduction are taken from the first edition) gives an overview of the
building regulatory system in England. You can access the most recent
version of the manual at: www.gov.uk/guidance/building-regulations-
and-approved-documents-index.
How do you comply with the Building Regulations?
Building work must meet all relevant requirements of the Building Regulations. To comply with
the Building Regulations, it is necessary both to follow the correct procedures and meet technical
performance requirements.
The approved documents set out what, in ordinary circumstances, may be accepted as one way to
comply with the Building Regulations. Note, however, that:
• Complying with the guidance in the approved documents does not guarantee that building work
complies with the requirements of the regulations – the approved documents cannot cover all
circumstances. Those responsible for building work must consider whether following the guidance
in the approved documents is likely to meet the requirements in the particular circumstances of
their case.
• There may be other ways to comply with the requirements than those described in an approved
document. If those responsible for meeting the requirements prefer to meet a requirement in
some other way than described in an approved document, they should seek to agree this with the
relevant building control body at an early stage.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition i
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 6 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Those responsible for building work include agents, designers, builders, installers and the building
owner. For further information, see Chapter 7 in Volume 1 and paragraphs A26, B2 and F2 in Volume 2
of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
The Building Regulations can be contravened by not following the correct procedures or not meeting
the technical performance requirements. If the building owner or those responsible for the works
contravene the Building Regulations, the local authority may prosecute them in the magistrates’ court.
For further information on enforcement and sanctions in the existing system, see Chapter B in Volume
2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
What do the Building Regulations cover?
‘Building work’ is a legal term for work covered by the Building Regulations. Where a building is not
exempt, the Building Regulations apply to all types of building work as defined in regulation 3 of the
Building Regulations. For further information, what constitutes building work is covered in Chapter A,
Volume 2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
The Building Regulations contain sections dealing with definitions, procedures and the expected
technical performance of building work. For example, the Building Regulations:
a. defne what types of building, plumbing and heating work are classed as building work in
regulation 3 (for further information see paragraphs A14 to A16 in Volume 2 of the Manual to the
Building Regulations).
b. specify types of building that are exempt from the Building Regulations (for further information
see Table A1 and paragraph A11 in Volume 2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations).
c. set out the notifcation procedures to follow when undertaking building work (for further
information see Figure 2.1 in Volume 1 of the Manual to the Building Regulations).
d. set out the technical requirements (see Table 7.1 in Volume 1 of the Manual to the Building
Regulations) with which the individual aspects of building design and construction must comply
in the interests of the health and safety of building users, of energy efciency (for further
information see paragraphs A12(d)–(f), A14(f)–(h), A22, A23, B2(c) and F24 in Volume 2 of the
Manual to the Building Regulations), and of access to and use of buildings.
e. set out the standards for building materials and workmanship in carrying out building work
(for further information see Chapter 7 in Volume 1, and paragraphs F8 to F11 in Volume 2 of the
Manual to the Building Regulations).
When must a building control body be notified?
It is often necessary to notify a building control body of planned building work. To help ensure that
work complies with the Building Regulations, those responsible for building work may need to use one
of the two types of building control body listed below:
a. a local authority building control body
b. a private sector building control service.
ii Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 7 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
If building work consists only of installing certain types of services or fittings (e.g. fuel-burning
appliances or replacement windows) and the building owner employs an installer that is registered with
a relevant competent person scheme designated in the regulations, a building control body does not
need to be notified.
How to use this approved document
Each approved document contains:
• general guidance on the performance expected of materials and building work in order to comply
with each of the requirements of the Building Regulations, and
• practical examples and solutions on how to achieve compliance for some of the more common
building situations.
They may not provide appropriate guidance if the case is unusual in terms of its design, setting, use,
scale or technology. Non-standard conditions may include any of the following:
• difficult ground conditions
• buildings with unusual occupancies or high levels of complexity
• very large or very tall buildings
• large timber buildings
• some buildings that incorporate modern construction methods.
Anyone using the approved documents should have sufficient knowledge and skills to understand the
guidance and correctly apply it to the building work. This is important because simply following the
guidance does not guarantee that your building work will comply with the legal requirements of the
Building Regulations. Each approved document contains legal requirements (which you must follow)
and guidance (which you may or may not choose to follow). The text in a box with a green background
at the beginning of each section of an approved document is taken from the Building Regulations. This
text sets out the legal requirements.
The explanation which follows the legal requirements is guidance (see Diagram i below). The guidance
then explains one or more ways to demonstrate how building work can be shown to comply with the
legal requirements in common circumstances. The terms in green lettering in an approved document
are key terms, listed and explained in the appendix to that approved document. Guidance in the
approved documents addresses most, but not all, situations that building owners will face. Situations
may arise that are not covered. You or your advisers will need to carefully consider whether following
the guidance will mean that the requirements of the Building Regulations will be met.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition iii
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 8 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B2
Requirement B2: Internal fire spread (linings)
This section deals with the following requirement from Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations 2010.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
Internal fre spread (linings)
B2. (1) To inhibit the spread of fire within the building,
the internal linings shall— ➊
(a) adequately resist the spread of flame over
their surfaces; and
(b) have, if ignited, either a rate of heat release
or a rate of fire growth, which is reasonable in
the circumstances.
(2) In this paragraph “internal linings” means the
materials or products used in lining any partition,
wall, ceiling or other internal structure.
Intention
In the Secretary of State’s view, requirement B2 is met by achieving a restricted spread of flame
over internal linings. The building fabric should make a limited contribution to fire growth,
including a low rate of heat release.
It is particularly important in circulation spaces, where linings may offer the main means by which ➋
fire spreads and where rapid spread is most likely to prevent occupants from escaping.
Requirement B2 does not include guidance on the following.
a. Generation of smoke and fumes.
b. The upper surfaces of floors and stairs.
c. Furniture and fittings.
Key
➊
The law: extract from the Building Regulations 2010.
➋
Statutory guidance.
Diagram i T he relationship between regulations and guidance in the approved documents
For further information about the use of technical guidance, see Chapter 7 in Volume 1 and Chapter F
in Volume 2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
Where to get further help
If you are unsure whether you have the knowledge and skills to apply the guidance correctly, or if you
do not understand the technical guidance or other information in this approved document or the
additional detailed technical references to which it directs you, you should seek further help. Some
sources of help are listed below.
a. Your building control body may be able to help in many cases.
b. If you are registered with a competent person scheme, the scheme operator should be in a
position to help.
c. Suitably qualifed and experienced construction professionals should also be engaged where necessary.
iv Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 9 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Contents
Introduction i
What is an approved document? i
How is construction regulated in England? i
How do you comply with the Building Regulations? i
What do the Building Regulations cover? ii
When must a building control body be notified? ii
How to use this approved document iii
Where to get further help iv
Section 0: Approved Document B: Fire safety – buildings other than dwellings 1
Summary 1
Arrangement of sections 1
Management of premises 2
Property protection 2
Inclusive design 2
Alternative approaches 3
Purpose groups 5
Mixed use buildings 7
Requirement B1: Means of warning and escape 8
Intention 8
Section 1: Fire detection and alarm systems 9
General provisions 9
Fire detection and alarm systems 9
Design and installation of systems 11
Section 2: Design for horizontal escape 12
Introduction 12
Escape route design 12
Residential care homes 25
Section 3: Design for vertical escape 28
Introduction 28
Number of escape stairs 28
Provision of refuges 29
Width of escape stairs 30
Design and protection of escape stairs 36
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition v
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 10 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Section 4: Small premises 42
Construction 42
Travel distance and number of escape routes 42
Escape stairs in small premises 46
Section 5: General provisions 47
Introduction 47
Protection of escape routes 47
Doors on escape routes 47
General provisions 49
Lifts 51
Refuse chutes and storage 52
Shop store rooms 53
Requirement B2: Internal fire spread (linings) 54
Intention 54
Section 6: Wall and ceiling linings 55
Classification of linings 55
Thermoplastic materials 57
Requirement B3: Internal fire spread (structure) 61
Intention 62
Section 7: Loadbearing elements of structure 63
Fire resistance standard 63
Raised storage areas 64
Section 8: Compartmentation/sprinklers 65
Provision of compartmentation 65
Sprinklers 69
Construction of compartment walls and compartment floors 69
Openings in compartmentation 72
Protected shafts 72
Section 9: Cavities 76
Provision of cavity barriers 77
Pathways around fire-separating elements 77
Extensive cavities 79
Construction and fixings for cavity barriers 80
Section 10: Protection of openings and fire‑stopping 82
Introduction 82
Openings for pipes 82
Mechanical ventilation and air-conditioning systems 83
vi Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 11 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Flues, etc. 87
Fire-stopping 87
Section 11: Special provisions for car parks 89
Requirement B4: External fire spread 91
Intention 93
Section 12: Resisting fire spread over external walls 94
Introduction 94
Combustibility of external walls 94
Balconies 96
Metal composite materials 97
Regulation 7(2) and requirement B4 97
Section 13: Resisting fire spread from one building to another 99
Introduction 99
Boundaries 99
Unprotected areas and fire resistance 102
Methods for calculating acceptable unprotected area 105
Section 14: Resisting fire spread over roof coverings 107
Introduction 107
Separation distances 107
Requirement B5: Access and facilities for the fire service 110
Intention 110
Section 15: Vehicle access 111
Buildings not fitted with fire mains 111
Buildings fitted with fire mains 113
Design of access routes and hardstandings 113
Section 16: Fire mains and hydrants 116
Introduction 116
Provision of fire mains 116
Design and construction of fire mains 116
Provision of private hydrants 117
Section 17: Access to buildings for firefighting personnel 118
Introduction 118
Provision of firefighting shafts 119
Location of firefighting shafts 120
Design and construction of firefighting shafts 122
Rolling shutters in compartment walls 122
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition vii
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 12 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Section 18: Venting of heat and smoke from basements 123
Provision of smoke outlets 123
Construction of outlet ducts or shafts 125
Basement car parks 125
Regulation 38: Fire safety information 126
Intention 127
Section 19: Fire safety information 128
Appendix A: Key terms 132
Appendix B: Performance of materials, products and structures 138
Introduction 138
Reaction to fire 139
Thermoplastic materials 140
Fire resistance 141
Application of the fire resistance standards in Table B2 149
Appendix C: Fire doorsets 165
Appendix D: Methods of measurement 175
Occupant number 175
Travel distance 177
Width 177
Building dimensions 178
Free area of smoke ventilators 181
Appendix E: Sprinklers 182
Sprinkler systems 182
Design of sprinkler systems 183
Water supplies and pumps 183
Appendix F: Standards referred to 184
European Standards 184
British Standards 185
Appendix G: Documents referred to 187
Legislation 187
Other documents 187
Index 189
viii Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 13 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Section 0: Approved Document B: Fire safety –
buildings other than dwellings
Summary
0.1 This approved document has been published in two volumes. Volume 1 deals solely with dwellings,
including blocks of flats, while Volume 2 deals with all other types of building covered by the
Building Regulations.
Arrangement of sections
0.2 Requirements B1–B5 of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations are dealt with separately in one or
more sections. Each requirement is shown at the start of the relevant sections.
0.3 The provisions in this document have the following aims:
Requirement B1: When there is a fire, ensure both:
a. satisfactory means of sounding an alarm
b. satisfactory means of escape for people.
Requirement B2: Inhibit the spread of fire over internal linings of buildings.
Requirement B3: The building must be built such that all of the following are achieved in the event
of a fire:
a. the premature collapse of the building is avoided
b. sufficient fire separation is provided within buildings and between adjoining buildings
c. automatic fire suppression is provided where necessary
d. the unseen spread of fire and smoke in cavities is restricted.
Requirement B4: Restrict both:
a. the potential for fire to spread over external walls and roofs (including compliance with
regulations 6(4) and 7(2))
b. the spread of fire from one building to another.
Requirement B5: Ensure both:
a. satisfactory access for the fire service and its appliances
b. facilities in buildings to help firefighters save the lives of people in and around buildings.
Regulation 38: Provide fire safety information to building owners.
0.4 Guidance is given on each aspect separately, though many are closely interlinked. The document
should be considered as a whole. The relationship between different requirements and their
interdependency should be recognised. Particular attention should be given to the situation
where one part of the guidance is not fully followed as this could have a negative effect on other
provisions.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 1
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 14 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Appendices: Information common to more than one requirement of Part B
0.5 Guidance on matters that refer to more than one section of this document can be found in the
following appendices.
Appendix A: Key terms
Appendix B: Performance of materials, products and structures
Appendix C: Fire doorsets
Appendix D: Methods of measurement
Appendix E: Sprinklers
Appendix F: Standards referred to
Appendix G: Documents referred to
Management of premises
0.6 The Building Regulations do not impose any requirements on the management of a building, but
do assume that it will be properly managed. This includes, for example, keeping protected escape
routes virtually ‘fire sterile’.
Appropriate fire safety design considers the way in which a building will be managed. Any reliance
on an unrealistic or unsustainable management regime cannot be considered to have met the
requirements of the regulations.
Once the building is in use, the management regime should be maintained and a suitable risk
assessment undertaken for any variation in that regime. Failure to take proper management
responsibility may result in the prosecution of an employer, building owner or occupier under
legislation such as the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005.
Property protection
0.7 The Building Regulations are intended to ensure a reasonable standard of life safety in a fire. The
protection of property, including the building itself, often requires additional measures. Insurers
usually set higher standards before accepting the insurance risk.
Many insurers use the RISCAuthority Design Guide for the Fire Protection of Buildings by the Fire
Protection Association (FPA) as a basis for providing guidance to the building designer on what
they require.
Further information on the protection of property can be obtained from the FPA website:
www.thefpa.co.uk.
Inclusive design
0.8 The fire safety aspects of the Building Regulations aim to achieve reasonable standards of health
and safety for people in and around buildings.
People, regardless of ability, age or gender, should be able to access buildings and use their
facilities. The fire safety measures incorporated into a building should take account of the needs of
everyone who may access the building, both as visitors and as people who live or work in it. It is not
appropriate, except in exceptional circumstances, to assume that certain groups of people will be
excluded from a building because of its use.
2 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 15 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
The provisions in this approved document are considered to be of a reasonable standard for most
buildings. However, some people’s specific needs might not be addressed. In some situations, additional
measures may be needed to accommodate these needs. This should be done on a case-by-case basis.
Alternative approaches
0.9 The fire safety requirements of the Building Regulations will probably be satisfied by following the
relevant guidance in this approved document. However, approved documents provide guidance for
some common building situations and there may be alternative methods of complying with the Building
Regulations’ requirements.
If alternative methods are adopted, the overall level of safety should not be lower than the approved
document provides. It is the responsibility of those undertaking the work to demonstrate compliance.
If other standards or guidance documents are adopted, the relevant fire safety recommendations
in those publications should be followed in their entirety. However, in some circumstances it
may be necessary to use one publication to supplement another. Care must be taken when using
supplementary guidance to ensure that an integrated approach is used in any one building.
Guidance documents intended specifically for assessing fire safety in existing buildings often include
less onerous provisions than those for new buildings and are therefore unlikely to be appropriate for
building work that is controlled by the Building Regulations.
Buildings for industrial and commercial activities that present a special fire hazard, e.g. those that sell
fuels, may require additional fire precautions to those in this approved document.
Health care premises
0.10 Health care premises and the patients who use them are diverse. Patients using the premises require
different types of care to suit their specific needs. The choice of fire safety strategy depends on
both of the following.
a. How a building is designed, furnished, staffed and managed.
b. The needs of the patients.
The Department of Health (DoH) guidance documents on fire precautions in health care buildings,
Firecode, take account of the particular characteristics of these buildings and should be followed.
Firecode contains managerial and other fire safety provisions that are outside the scope of the
Building Regulations.
Unsupervised group homes
0.11 An unsupervised group home for not more than six mental health service users should be regarded
as having a purpose group of either of the following.
a. An existing house of one or two storeys for which the means of escape are provided in
accordance with DoH HTM 88 should be regarded as a purpose group 1(c) building.
b. A new building may be more appropriately regarded as being in purpose group 2(b).
Shopping complexes
0.12 Although the guidance in this document may be readily applied to individual shops, shopping
complexes present different escape problems. The design of units within a shopping complex should
be compatible with the fire strategy for the complex as a whole. A suitable approach is given in
Annex E of BS 9999.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 3
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 16 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Assembly buildings
0.13 Assembly buildings where a large number of people are present require additional considerations for
means of escape; for example, fixed seating may limit the ability of people to escape.
Guidance on fixed seating and other aspects of means of escape in assembly buildings is given in
Annex D of BS 9999.
For buildings to which the Safety of Sports Grounds Act 1975 applies, the Sports Grounds Safety
Authority’s Guide to Safety at Sports Grounds should also be followed.
Schools
0.14 The design of fire safety in schools is covered by Building Bulletin 100, which should be used.
Building Bulletin 100 contains fire safety provisions that are outside the scope of the Building
Regulations.
Prisons provided under section 33 of the Prisons Act 1952
0.15 Prisons are exempted from the functional requirements of Parts B1 to B5 of the Building Regulations
under section 33 of the Prisons Act 1952. It is usual that prisons should comply with the fire safety
requirements of the Building Regulations, except where the requirements are incompatible with safe
custody, good order or security.
HM Prison and Probation Service (HMPPS) provides guidance documents on fire precautions in
prisons, which take account of the public safety need to secure doors and exits while maintaining
life safety objectives.
The HMPPS Custodial Premises Fire Safety Design Guide (FSDG) is the design standard for fire safety
in prisons, providing structured guidance for those involved in the planning, designing or approval
of new or altered buildings.
Further guidance documents on fire safety in prisons are provided by HMPPS. These documents
may also be used for other places of lawful detention.
Buildings containing one or more atria
0.16 A building with an atrium that passes through compartment floors may need special fire safety
measures. Guidance is given in Annexes B and C of BS 9999.
Buildings of special architectural or historic interest
0.17 Where Part B applies to existing buildings, particularly buildings of special architectural or historic
interest for which the guidance in this document might prove too restrictive, some variation of the
provisions in this document may be appropriate. In such cases, it is appropriate to assess the hazard
and risk in the particular case and consider a range of fire safety features in that context.
Fire safety engineering
0.18 Fire safety engineering might provide an alternative approach to fire safety. Fire safety engineering
may be the only practical way to achieve a satisfactory standard of fire safety in some complex
buildings and in buildings that contain different uses.
Fire safety engineering may also be suitable for solving a specific problem with a design that
otherwise follows the provisions in this document.
0.19 BS 7974 and supporting published documents (PDs) provide a framework for and guidance on the
application of fire safety engineering principles to the design of buildings.
4 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 17 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Purpose groups
0.20 Building uses are classified within different purpose groups, which represent different levels of
hazard (see Table 0.1). A purpose group can apply to a whole building or to a compartment within
the building, and should relate to the main use of the building or compartment.
0.21 Where a building or compartment has more than one use, it is appropriate to assign each different
use to its own purpose group in the following situations.
a. If the ancillary use is a flat.
b. If both of the following apply.
i. The building or compartment has an area of more than 280m2.
ii. The ancillary use relates to an area that is more than one-fifth of the total floor area of the
building or compartment.
c. In ‘shop and commercial’ (purpose group 4) buildings or compartments, if the ancillary use is
storage and both of the following apply.
i. The building or compartment has an area of more than 280m2 .
ii. The storage area comprises more than one-third of the total floor area of the building or
compartment.
0.22 Where there are multiple main uses that are not ancillary to one another (for example, shops with
independent offices above), each use should be assigned to a purpose group in its own right. Where
there is doubt as to which purpose group is appropriate, the more onerous guidance should be
applied.
Table 0.1 Classification of purpose groups
Volume 1 purpose groups
Title Group Purpose for which the building or compartment of a building is intended to be used
Residential 1(a)(1) Flat.
(dwellings)
1(b)(2) Dwellinghouse that contains a habitable storey with a floor level a minimum of 4.5m
above ground level up to a maximum of 18m.(3)
1(c)(2)(4) Dwellinghouse that does not contain a habitable storey with a floor level a minimum
of 4.5m above ground level.
Volume 2 purpose groups
Residential 2(a) Hospital, home, school or other similar establishment, where people sleep on the
(institutional) premises. The building may be either of the following:
• Living accommodation for, or accommodation for the treatment, care or
maintenance of, either:
disabled people with a range of impairments including physical, sensory and
-
cognitive impairments, or mental health conditions
people under the age of 5 years.
-
• A place of lawful detention.
Residential 2(b) Hotel, boarding house, residential college, hall of residence, hostel or any other
(other) residential purpose not described above.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 5
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 18 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Table 0.1 Continued
Title Group Purpose for which the building or compartment of a building is intended to be used
Office 3 Offices or premises used for any of the following and their control:
• administration
• clerical work (including writing, bookkeeping, sorting papers, filing, typing,
duplicating, machine calculating, drawing and the editorial preparation of matter
for publication, police and fire and rescue service work)
• handling money (including banking and building society work)
• communications (including postal, telegraph and radio communications)
• radio, television, film, audio or video recording
• performance (premises not open to the public).
Shop and 4 Shops or premises used for either of the following.
commercial
• A retail trade or business (including selling food or drink to the public for
immediate consumption, retail by auction, self-selection and over-the-counter
wholesale trading, the business of lending books or periodicals for gain, the
business of a barber or hairdresser, and the rental of storage space to the public).
• Premises to which the public are invited either:
– to deliver or collect goods in connection with their hire, repair or other
treatment
– (except in the case of repair of motor vehicles) where the public themselves may
carry out such repairs or other treatments.
Assembly and 5 Place of assembly, entertainment or recreation, including any of the following:
recreation
• bingo halls, broadcasting, recording and film studios open to the public, casinos,
dance halls
• entertainment, conference, exhibition and leisure centres
• funfairs and amusement arcades
• museums and art galleries, non-residential clubs, theatres, cinemas, concert halls
• educational establishments, dancing schools, gymnasia, swimming pool buildings,
riding schools, skating rinks, sports pavilions, sports stadia
• law courts
• churches and other buildings of worship, crematoria
• libraries open to the public, non-residential day centres, clinics, health centres and
surgeries
• passenger stations and termini for air, rail, road or sea travel
• public toilets
• zoos and menageries.
Industrial 6 Factories and other premises used for any of the following:
• manufacturing, altering, repairing, cleaning, washing, breaking up, adapting or
processing any article
• generating power
• slaughtering livestock.
6 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 19 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Table 0.1 Continued
Title Group Purpose for which the building or compartment of a building is intended to be used
Storage and 7(a) Either of the following:
other non-
• place (other than described under 7(b)) for the storage or deposit of goods or
residential(4)
materials
• any building not within purpose groups 1 to 6.
7(b) Car parks designed to admit and accommodate only cars, motorcycles and passenger or
light goods vehicles that weigh a maximum of 2500kg gross.
NOTES:
This table only applies to Part B.
See Approved Document B Volume 1 for guidance on dwellings (purpose group 1).
1. Includes live/work units that meet the provisions of Approved Document B Volume 1, paragraph 3.24.
2. Includes any surgeries, consulting rooms, offices or other accommodation that meets all of the following
conditions.
a. A maximum of 50m2 in total.
b. Part of a dwellinghouse.
c. Used by an occupant of the dwellinghouse in a professional or business capacity.
3. Where very large (over 18m in height or with a 10m deep basement) or unusual dwellinghouses are proposed,
some of the guidance for buildings other than dwellings may be needed.
4. All of the following are included in purpose group 1(c).
a. A detached garage a maximum of 40m2 in area.
b. A detached open carport a maximum of 40m2 in area.
c. A detached building that consists of a garage and open carport, each a maximum of 40m2 in area.
Mixed use buildings
0.23 This approved document includes reference to selected guidance for dwellings. For the design of
mixed use buildings which include dwellings, Approved Document B Volume 1 should be consulted
in addition to the guidance contained in this approved document.
0.24 Where a complex mix of uses exists, the effect that one use may have on another in terms of
risk should be considered. It could be necessary to use guidance from both volumes, apply other
guidance (such as from HTM 05-02 or Building Bulletin 100), and/or apply special measures to reduce
the risk.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 7
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 20 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Requirement B1: Means of warning and escape
These sections deal with the following requirement from Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations 2010.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
Means of warning and escape
B1. The building shall be designed and constructed so that Requirement B1 does not apply to any prison provided
there are appropriate provisions for the early warning under section 33 of the Prison Act 1952(a) (power to
of fire, and appropriate means of escape in case of provide prisons, etc.).
fire from the building to a place of safety outside the
building capable of being safely and effectively used
at all material times.
(a) 1 952 c. 52; section 33 was amended by section 100 of
the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 (c. 33)
and by S.I. 1963/597.
Intention
In the Secretary of State’s view, requirement B1 is met by achieving all of the following.
a. There are sufficient means for giving early warning of fire to people in the building.
b. All people can escape to a place of safety without external assistance.
c. Escape routes are suitably located, sufficient in number and of adequate capacity.
d. Where necessary, escape routes are sufficiently protected from the effects of fire and smoke.
e. Escape routes are adequately lit and exits are suitably signed.
f. There are appropriate provisions to limit the ingress of smoke to the escape routes, or to restrict
the spread of fire and remove smoke.
The extent to which any of these measures are necessary is dependent on the use of the building,
its size and its height.
Building work and material changes of use subject to requirement B1 include both new and existing
buildings.
8 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 21 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Section 1: Fire detection and alarm systems
General provisions
1.1 All buildings should have arrangements for detecting fire and raising the alarm. In most buildings,
fires are detected by people, either by sight or smell, and therefore often nothing more is needed.
1.2 In some small buildings/premises, the means of raising the alarm may be simple (for example, a
shouted warning). In assessing appropriate solutions, warnings need to be heard and understood
throughout the premises.
Fire detection and alarm systems
1.3 Other than for some small buildings/premises, an electrically operated fire alarm system should be
provided. In some situations, the alarm should be operated by a fire detection system. The detailed
specification should be compatible with the fire strategy for the building.
NOTE: The term ‘fire alarm system’ describes the combination of components for giving an audible
and/or other perceptible warning of fire.
NOTE: In this document, the term ‘fire detection system’ describes any type of automatic sensor
network and associated control and indicating equipment. Sensors may be sensitive to smoke, heat,
gaseous combustion products or radiation. Automatic sprinkler systems can also be used to operate
a fire alarm system.
1.4 In ‘residential (institutional)’ and ‘residential (other)’ occupancies (purpose groups 2(a) and 2(b)),
automatic fire detection and alarms should be provided.
1.5 Automatic fire detection and alarm systems should be provided in non-residential occupancies
where a fire could break out in an unoccupied part of the premises (e.g. a storage area or a part of
the building that is not visited on a regular basis) and prejudice the means of escape from occupied
part(s) of the premises.
1.6 Automatic fire detection will also be necessary where fire protection systems, such as pressure
differential systems or door releases, need to operate automatically.
1.7 Every building design should be assessed individually. General guidance on the category of fire
detection system that may need to be provided within a building can be found in Table A1 of
BS 5839-1.
1.8 Where an electrically operated fire detection and alarm system is provided, it should comply
with BS 5839-1.
1.9 BS 5839-1 specifies three categories of system.
a. Category L – for the protection of life.
b. Category M – manual fire detection and alarm systems.
c. Category P – for property protection.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 9
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 22 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Category L systems are divided into the following.
L1 – systems installed throughout the protected building.
L2 – systems installed only in defined parts of the protected building (a category L2 system will
normally include the coverage required of a category L3 system).
L3 – systems designed to warn of fire at an early enough stage to enable all occupants, other
than possibly those in the room where the fire started, to escape safely before the escape routes
become impassable because of fire, smoke or toxic gases.
L4 – systems installed within those parts of the escape routes that comprise circulation areas and
circulation spaces, such as corridors and stairs.
L5 – systems in which the protected area(s) and/or the location of detectors are designed to satisfy
a specific fire safety objective (other than that of a category L1, L2, L3 or L4 system).
Type P systems are divided into the following.
P1 – systems installed throughout the protected building.
P2 – systems installed only in defined parts of the protected building.
1.10 Electrical alarm system call points should comply with either of the following.
a. BS 5839-2.
b. BS EN 54-11 Type A (direct operation).
Call points should be installed in accordance with BS 5839-1.
Type B (indirect operation) call points of BS EN 54-11 should only be used with the approval of the
building control body.
1.11 A voice alarm system complying with BS 5839-8, and giving a fire warning different from other
signals in general use, may be considered if either of the following applies.
a. People might not respond quickly to a fire warning.
b. People are unfamiliar with the fire warning arrangements.
1.12 In premises where lots of members of the public are present, an initial general alarm may be
undesirable. Any fire alarm system that first alerts staff should comply with BS 5839-1.
1.13 Where the escape strategy is based on simultaneous evacuation, actuation of the fire alarm system
should give warning from all fire alarm sounders. Where phased evacuation is planned, a staged
alarm system is appropriate. See paragraph 3.21.
1.14 BS 9999 provides guidance for fire detection and alarm systems in buildings containing atria.
Warnings for people with impaired hearing
1.15 Clause 18 of BS 5839-1 gives detailed guidance on the design and selection of fire alarm warnings
for people with impaired hearing. In buildings or part of a building where people may be in relative
isolation, a visual and audible fire alarm may be the most appropriate solution. In buildings where
the population is managed, a vibrating personal paging system may be more appropriate.
10 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 23 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Design and installation of systems
1.16 Fire detection and alarm systems must be properly designed, installed and maintained. A design,
installation and commissioning certificate should be provided for fire detection and alarm systems.
Third party certification schemes for fire protection products and related services are an effective
means of providing assurances of quality, reliability and safety.
Interface between fire detection and alarm systems and other systems
1.17 Fire detection and alarm systems sometimes trigger other systems. The interface between systems
must be reliable. Particular care should be taken if the interface is facilitated via another system.
Where any part of BS 7273 applies to the triggering of other systems, the recommendations of that
part of BS 7273 should be followed.
Student accommodation
1.18 In student residences that are designed and occupied as a block of flats, separate automatic
detection should be provided in each self-contained flat where all of the following apply.
a. A group of up to six students shares the flat.
b. Each flat has its own entrance door.
c. The compartmentation principles for flats in Section 7 of Approved Document B Volume 1 have
been followed.
Where a total evacuation strategy is adopted, the alarm system should follow the guidance
elsewhere in this section.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 11
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 24 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
BB11
Section 2: Design for horizontal escape
Introduction
2.1 Means of escape should be provided from any point on a storey to the storey exit, for all types of
building. The general principle is that any person confronted by a fire within a building can turn away
from it and escape safely.
2.2 For small shop, office, industrial, storage and other similar premises, the guidance on small premises
(see section 4) may be followed instead of the provisions in this section, if they meet both of the
following conditions.
a. No storey has an area more than 280m2.
b. There is a maximum of two storeys plus a basement storey.
Escape route design
Number of escape routes and exits
2.3 The number of escape routes and exits that should be provided depends on both of the following.
a. The number of occupants in the room, tier or storey.
b. The limits on travel distance to the nearest exit given in Table 2.1 (which apply only to the
nearest exit; other exits may be further away).
2.4 In multi-storey buildings, if more than one stair is needed for vertical escape, every part of each
storey should have access to more than one stair. An area may be in a dead end provided the
alternative stair is accessible.
2.5 In mixed use buildings, separate means of escape should be provided from any storeys or parts
of storeys used for the ‘residential’ or ‘assembly and recreation’ purpose groups (purpose groups 1,
2 and 5).
12 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 25 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
BB11
Single escape routes and exits
2.6 A single escape route is acceptable for either of the following.
a. Parts of a floor from which a storey exit can be reached within the limit for travel distance in
one direction shown in Table 2.1 (see also paragraph 2.8), provided the following apply.
i. For places of assembly and bars, no one room in this situation has more than 60 people.
ii. For ‘residential (institutional)’ buildings (purpose group 2(a)), no one room in this situation has
more than 30 people. Occupant number calculations are described in Appendix D.
b. A storey with no more than 60 people, where the limits on travel distance in one direction only
are satisfied (see Table 2.1).
2.7 In many cases, the beginning of a route will not have an alternative escape route (for example, a
single exit from a room into a corridor where escape is possible in two directions). This is acceptable
if both of the following apply.
a. The travel distance to the nearest storey exit is within the limits for routes where escape is
possible in more than one direction (Table 2.1).
b. The travel distance for the ‘one direction only’ section of the route does not exceed the limit
for travel distance where there is no alternative escape route (Table 2.1).
Diagram 2.1 shows how to measure travel distances from a dead end in an open storey layout.
See para 2.7
D
Travel distance in a dead-end condition
Exit
should meet all of the following.
A a. Angle ABD should be at least 45 degrees.
Exit 45° min.
b. Distance CBA or CBD (whichever is less)
B should be no more than the maximum travel
distance given for alternative escape routes.
c. Distance CB should be no more than the
maximum travel distance where there are no
alternative escape routes.
C
Diagram 2.1 Travel distance in dead-end condition
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 13
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 26 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Table 2.1 Limitations on travel distance
Maximum travel distance(1)
where travel is possible in:
Purpose group Use of the premises or part of the premises One direction More than
only (m) one direction
(m)
2(a) Residential (institutional) 9 18
2(b) Residential (other):
a. in bedrooms(2) 9 18
b. in bedroom corridors 9 35
c. elsewhere 18 35
3 Office 18 45
4 Shop and commercial 18 45
5 Assembly and recreation:
a. buildings primarily for disabled people 9 18
b. areas with seating in rows 15 32
c. elsewhere 18 45
6 Industrial(3) Normal hazard 25 45
Higher hazard 12 25
7 Storage and other non-residential(3) Normal hazard 25 45
Higher hazard 12 25
2–7 Place of special fire hazard(4) 9(5) 18(5)
2–7 Plant room or roof-top plant:
a. distance within the room 9 35
b. escape route not in open air (overall 18 45
travel distance)
c. escape route in open air (overall travel 60 100
distance)
NOTES:
1. If the internal layout of partitions, fittings, etc. is not known, direct distances, rather than travel distances, should
be assessed. The direct distance should be assumed to be two-thirds of the actual travel distance.
2. Maximum part of travel distance within the room. This limit applies within the bedroom and any associated
dressing room, bathroom or sitting room, etc. The distance is measured to the door to the protected corridor that
serves the room or suite. Sub-item (b) applies from that point along the bedroom corridor to a storey exit.
3. In industrial and storage buildings, the appropriate travel distance depends on the level of fire hazard associated
with the processes and materials being used.
Higher hazard includes manufacturing, processing or storage of significant amounts of hazardous goods or
materials, including any of the following.
• Any compressed, liquefied or dissolved gas.
• Any substance that becomes dangerous by interaction with either air or water.
• Any liquid substance with a flash point below 65°C, including whisky or other alcoholic liquor.
• Any corrosive substance.
• Any oxidising agent.
• Any substance liable to spontaneous combustion.
• Any substance that changes or decomposes readily, giving out heat when doing so.
• Any solid substance with a flash point less than 120°C.
• Any substance that is likely to spread fire by flowing from one part of a building to another.
4. Places of special fire hazard are listed in the definitions in Appendix A.
5. Maximum part of travel distance within the room/area. Travel distance outside the room/area should comply
with the limits for the purpose group of the building or part.
14 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 27 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Access control measures
2.8 Measures to restrict access to the building (or parts of it) should not adversely affect fire safety
provisions. It may be reasonable to close some escape routes outside normal business hours, but
measures should remain to safely evacuate people left inside the building (see paragraph 5.6).
Number of occupants and exits
2.9 The building design should be based on the number of occupants. If the number is not known, use
the appropriate floor space factors (Appendix D).
Table 2.2 gives the minimum number of escape routes and exits from a room or storey for different
numbers of occupants. This number is likely to be increased by the need to observe travel distances
and other practical considerations.
The width of escape routes and exits is given in paragraph 2.18.
Table 2.2 Minimum number of escape routes and exits from a room, tier or storey
Maximum number of people Minimum number of escape routes/exits
60 1
600 2
More than 600 3
Alternative escape routes
2.10 Alternative escape route should satisfy one of the following criteria.
a. They are in directions 45 degrees or more apart (Diagram 2.2).
b. They are in directions less than 45 degrees apart, but separated from each other by fire resisting
construction.
See para 2.10
A B Alternative escape routes are available from C because angle ACB
is 45 degrees or more and therefore distance CA or CB (whichever
E
is the less) should be no more than the maximum travel distance
given for alternative escape routes.
> 45° < 45° Alternative escape routes are not available from D because angle
D ADB is less than 45 degrees (therefore see Diagram 2.1).
C
There is also no alternative escape route from E.
Diagram 2.2 A lternative escape routes
Inner rooms
2.11 An inner room is at risk if a fire starts in the access room (Diagram 2.3). Such an arrangement should
only be accepted if all of the following conditions are satisfied.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 15
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 28 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
a. The occupant number of the inner room does not exceed:
i. 30 people for ‘residential (institutional)’ buildings (purpose group 2(a))
ii. 60 people for other purpose groups.
b. The inner room is not a bedroom.
c. The inner room is entered directly from the access room (but not via a corridor).
d. The escape route from the inner room does not pass through more than one access room.
e. The travel distance from any point in the inner room to the exits from the access room does not
exceed the distances in Table 2.1.
f. The access room meets both of the following conditions.
i. It is not a place of special fire hazard.
ii. It is in the control of the same occupier.
g. One of the following arrangements is made.
i. The enclosures (walls or partitions) of the inner room stop a minimum of 500mm below the
ceiling.
ii. The door or walls of the inner room contain a vision panel (minimum 0.1m2), so people can
see if a fire starts in the access room.
iii. The access room is fitted with an automatic fire detection and alarm system to warn
occupants of the inner room if a fire starts in the access room.
See para 2.11
Arrangement A Arrangement B
Exit Exit
Access room
NOTES:
Room with Inner room
alternative
Arrangement A Needs no special provision.
exits
Arrangement B Should observe the inner room
provisions in paragraph 2.11.
Exit
Diagram 2.3 Inner room and access room
Planning of exits in a central core
2.12 Where a central core has more than one exit, storey exits should be remote from one another and
no two exits should be approached from the same lift hall, common lobby or undivided corridor
(Diagram 2.4).
16 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 29 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Open spatial planning
2.13 Escape routes should not be within 4.5m of openings between floors, such as for an escalator, unless
either of the following applies.
a. The direction of travel is away from the opening.
b. An alternative escape route does not pass within 4.5m of the open connection (Diagram 2.5).
See para 2.12
A A A
C Fda A NOTE: The doors at both ends of the area marked
Fd ‘S’ should be self-closing fre doorsets unless the
Fd PS area is sub-divided such that any fre in that area
L will not be able to prejudice both sections of
corridor at the same time. If that area is a lift
lobby, doors should be provided as shown in
Figure 9 in BS 9999.
A L
Fd S Fd
L Lift
L
S Services, toilets, etc.
F d Self-closing E 20 S fre doorsets
a
F d a Possible alternative position for fre doorset
C Corridor o… which accommodation opens
L
PS Fd P S Protected stairway
A Accommodation (e.g. oƒce space – indicative
Fd
layout shown)
Fda C
A A A
Diagram 2.4 Exits in a central core
See para 2.13
See par
C
Area within 4.5m of the opening
Escape route
4.5m Exit From A and B at least one direction of travel
Opening is away from the opening. From C, where the
A initial direction of travel is towards the opening,
one of the escape routes is not less than 4.5m
from the opening.
B
Exit
Diagram 2.5 Open connections
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 17
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 30 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Access to storey exits
2.14 Where a storey has more than one escape stair, it should be planned so that it is not necessary to
pass through one stair to reach another. However, it would be acceptable to pass through one stair’s
protected lobby to reach another stair.
Separation of circulation routes from protected stairways
2.15 Where they serve protected stairways that are part of primary circulation routes, self-closing
fire doors should be fitted with an automatic release mechanism, to avoid them being rendered
ineffective by misuse. Otherwise, the stair (and any associated exit passageway) should not form
part of the primary circulation route between different parts of the building at the same level.
Storeys divided into different uses
2.16 If a storey contains areas for consuming food and/or drink, and where that is not the main use of
the building, then both of the following apply.
a. A minimum of two escape routes should be provided from each area, except from inner rooms
that meet the conditions in paragraph 2.11.
b. Those escape routes should lead directly to a storey exit without entering a kitchen or similar
area of high fire hazard.
Storeys divided into different occupancies
2.17 Where a storey is divided into areas of occupancy under separate ownership or tenancy, then both
of the following apply.
a. The means of escape from each occupancy should not pass through any other occupancy.
b. If a common corridor or circulation space is on the escape route, one of the following
should apply.
i. It should be a protected corridor.
ii. A suitable automatic fire detection and alarm system should be installed throughout
the storey.
Width of escape routes and exits
2.18 The width of escape routes and exits should meet the provisions in Table 2.3, as well as the
guidance in Approved Document M.
2.19 If the maximum number of people likely to use the escape route and exit is not known, it should be
calculated using the occupant number guidance in Appendix D.
2.20 Guidance on the spacing of fixed seating for auditoria is given in Annex D of BS 9999.
18 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 31 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Table 2.3 Widths of escape routes and exits
Maximum number of people Minimum width (mm)(1)(2)(3)
60 750(4)
110 850
220 1050
More than 220 5 per person(5)
NOTES:
1. See Appendix D for methods of measurement.
2. Widths may need to be increased to meet guidance in Approved Document M.
3. Widths less than 1050mm should not be interpolated.
4. M ay be reduced to 530mm for gangways between fixed storage racking, other than in public areas of ‘shop and
commercial’ (purpose group 4) buildings.
5. 5mm/person does not apply to an opening serving fewer than 220 people.
Calculating exit capacity
2.21 Where multiple storey exits are available, fire might prevent one from being used. Remaining exits
need to be wide enough for all occupants, so when using Table 2.3, the largest exit should be
discounted.
Stairs should be at least as wide as any storey exit leading onto them. While some stairs are not
subject to discounting (paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15), because the stairs will be available for other floors,
the storey exits onto them are.
2.22 To calculate how many people two or more available exits (after discounting) can accommodate,
add together the maximum numbers of people that each exit width can accommodate.
For example, three exits each 850mm wide accommodate 3×110 = 330 people.
2.23 If a ground floor storey exit and a stair share a final exit (via a ground floor lobby), then the final exit
should be wide enough to evacuate people at a maximum flow rate equal to or greater than from
the storey exit and stair combined (Diagram 2.6).
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 19
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 32 ---

B1
Storey exit (N)
D
W
Diagram 2.6 Merging flows at final exit
20 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
D
O N L I N E V E R S I O N
See para 2.23
Escape stair
S
Ground foor
D Minimum 2m, where ‘N’ is greater than 60 people
lobby
N Number of people served by ground foor storey exit
W Width of fnal exit in metres
S Stair width in metres
Final exit
This can be calculated using the following formula:
W = ((N/2.5) + (60S))/80
where:
W is the width of final exit in metres
N is the number of people served by ground floor storey exit
S is the stair width in metres.
If the number of people (N) entering the lobby from the ground storey is more than 60, then the
distance from the foot of the stair or the storey exit to the final exit should be a minimum of 2m
(see Diagram 2.6).
If that minimum distance cannot be achieved, the width of the final exit (W) should be at least the
width of the stair plus the width of the storey exit.
Worked example
A ground floor storey exit serving 250 people shares a common final exit with a 1.2m wide stair.
Required final exit width = ((250/2.5) + (1.2×60))/80 = 2.150m
Protected corridors
2.24 A corridor serving as part of the means of escape in any of the following circumstances should be a
protected corridor.
a. Every corridor that serves bedrooms.
b. Every dead end corridor (excluding recesses and extensions a maximum of 2m deep, as shown in
Diagrams 2.7 and 2.8).
c. Any corridor shared by two or more occupancies (paragraph 2.17).
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 33 ---

B1
Diagram 2.8 Extension of corridor beyond a protected stairway
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 21
.xam
m2
.xam
m2
Protected Protected
stairway stairway
.xam
m2
O N L I N E V E R S I O N
See para 2.24
2m max. 2m max.
Corridor
Diagram 2.7 Recesses off corridors
See para 2.24
Example 1 Example 2
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 34 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Enclosure of corridors that are not protected corridors
2.25 If a corridor is used for a means of escape but is not a protected corridor, even though the
enclosing partitions may have no fire resistance, both of the following should be met to inhibit the
spread of smoke.
a. Partitions should continue to the soffit of the structural floor above, or to a suspended ceiling.
b. Openings into rooms from the corridor should be fitted with doors, which do not need to be
fire doorsets.
Open planning will not inhibit the spread of smoke, but occupants can become aware of a fire quickly.
Division of corridors
2.26 A corridor providing access to alternative escape route should be divided by fire doorsets fitted
with a self-closing device (and associated screens) where both of the following apply.
a. It is more than 12m long.
b. It connects two or more storey exits.
The fire doorsets (including any screens) should be approximately mid-way between the two storey
exits. They should safeguard the route from smoke, while considering the layout of the corridor and
any adjacent fire risks.
2.27 For buildings other than dwellings (purpose groups 2 to 7): if a cavity exists above the enclosures to
a corridor as described above (because the enclosures are not carried to full storey height or the
underside of the roof covering at the top storey), the potential for smoke to bypass the enclosure
should be restricted by one of the following methods.
a. Method 1 – Fitting cavity barriers on the line of the enclosure(s) to and across the corridor
(Diagram 2.9).
b. Method 2 – Dividing the storey using fire resisting construction that passes through the line of
the division of the corridor (Diagram 2.9). Any cavity above this division should be fitted with
cavity barriers on the line of division of the storey and the corridor.
c. Method 3 – Enclosing the cavity on the lower side by a fire resisting ceiling that extends
throughout the building, compartment or separated part.
Any door that could provide a path for smoke to bypass the division should be fitted with a self-
closing device (but need not necessarily be fire resisting).
22 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 35 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
See para 2.27
Method 1 Cavity above Method 2 Cavity above
ceiling ceiling
Cavity barrier
Corridor Corridor
Fire resisting
construction
Fire resisting
Fd Fire doorset sub-division
Fd Fd Fd Fd
Floor cavity Floor cavity
Section A Section B
Fire resisting
construction
Cavity barrier
to ceiling
cavity
Cavity barrier
to ceiling
cavity above
fre resisting
Fd sub-division Fd
Cavity barriers
on line of corridor
enclosure to any
Fd cavity above Fd
A A B B
Fire resisting
sub-division.
Any cavity
above to have
cavity barriers
Fd Fd
NOTES: The sub-division should be carried to full storey
For all methods, where the corridor is a protected height and includes sub-division of the
escape route, cavity barriers may also be required in corridor. A cavity barrier may be used in any
any foor cavity beneath the corridor enclosure ceiling cavity over the sub-division.
(see paragraph 9.5).
Diagram 2.9 D ivision of corridors
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 23
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 36 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
2.28 Where dead ends of corridors exceeding 4.5m long provide access to a point from which alternative
escape route are available, they should be separated by self-closing fire doorsets (together with any
associated screens) from any part of the corridor that either:
a. Provides two directions of escape (Diagram 2.10a)
b. Continues past one storey exit to another (Diagram 2.10b).
Alternatively, the stairs and corridors may be protected by a pressurisation system complying with
BS EN 12101-6.
See para 2.28
a. ‘T’ junction with b. Continuation
main corridor past stairway
Fd Fd
Fd Fd
Fd
Fd Fd Fd
Fd Fd Fd
Fd
Fd Fd
F d Self-closing
Fd Fd
fre doorsets
Protected
corridor
Diagram 2.10 Dead-end corridors exceeding 4.5m long
Cavity barriers
2.29 Additional measures to safeguard means of escape from smoke are given in Section 10.
External escape routes
2.30 Where an external escape route is beside an external wall of the building, the external wall should
be of fire resisting construction in both of the following zones.
a. Within 1800mm of the escape route.
b. Up to 1100mm above the surface of the escape route.
This does not apply to external escape stairs (see paragraph 3.32).
24 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 37 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Escape over flat roofs
2.31 Where a storey or part of a building has multiple escape routes available, one may be over a flat
roof if it does not serve a ‘residential (institutional)’ (purpose group 2(a)) building, or part of a
building intended for use by members of the public.
2.32 Where an escape route over a flat roof is provided, the roof should comply with all of the following.
a. It should be part of the same building from which escape is being made.
b. The route across the roof should lead to a storey exit or external escape route.
c. The part of the roof forming the escape route and its supporting structure, together with any
opening within 3m of the escape route, should be fire resisting (minimum REI 30).
d. The route should be clearly defined and guarded by walls and/or protective barriers to protect
from falling.
Residential care homes
General provisions
2.33 The choice of fire safety strategy depends on the way a building is designed, furnished, staffed and
managed, and on the level of dependency of the residents.
2.34 In care homes for the elderly, some or all residents are likely to need help to evacuate. Buildings
should generally be designed for progressive horizontal evacuation (PHE) in accordance with
paragraphs 2.35 to 2.46.
For other care home types, the most appropriate of either a PHE or simultaneous evacuation
strategy should be identified. The approach adopted in the design of a building must be recorded
and communicated to the building management team, who can adopt procedures compatible with
the building design.
Planning for progressive horizontal evacuation
2.35 The guidance below on PHE is for care homes where the provisions of the Firecode documents do
not apply (see paragraph 0.10).
PHE requires areas used for the care of residents to be divided into protected areas by
compartment walls and compartment floors. Protected areas provide a place of relative safety, from
which further evacuation can be made if necessary.
2.36 Each storey used for the care of residents should be divided by compartment walls into at least
three protected areas. All floors should be compartment floors.
2.37 Every protected area should have a minimum of two exits to adjoining protected areas. Maximum
travel distances within a protected area should be both of the following.
a. To the exit to the adjoining protected area: as shown in Table 2.1.
b. From any point to a storey exit or a final exit: 64m.
2.38 A fire in one protected area should not prevent occupants of other areas from reaching a final
exit (Diagram 2.11). Escape routes should not pass through ancillary accommodation listed in
paragraph 2.44.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 25
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 38 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
2.39 The number of residents’ beds in protected areas should be based on an assessment of both of
the following.
a. The number of staff likely to be available.
b. The level of assistance that residents may require.
The maximum number of residents’ beds in one protected area should not exceed 10, but may need
to be lower depending on the assessment.
2.40 A protected area used for horizontal evacuation from an adjoining protected area should have
a floor area able to accommodate its own occupants plus those from the largest adjoining
protected area.
See para 2.38
Escape route to adjacent
compartment, storey exit or
fnal exit
Compartment wall
Fire doorset in compartment wall
NOTE: Bedrooms and all ancillary
accommodation should be enclosed
in fre resisting construction.
Exit
Exit
Diagram 2.11 Progressive horizontal evacuation in care homes
Fire detection and alarm
2.41 A fire detection and alarm system should be provided to L1 standard in accordance with BS 5839-1.
Bedrooms
2.42 Each bedroom in a care home should be enclosed in fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30)
with fire resisting doors (minimum E 30). Every corridor serving bedrooms should be a protected
corridor (see paragraph 2.24).
26 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 39 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
2.43 Bedrooms should not contain more than one single or double bed.
NOTE: It is not the intention to separate couples who happen to live in a care home by
recommending that they sleep in separate bedrooms or beds.
Ancillary accommodation
2.44 Ancillary accommodation such as all of the following should be enclosed by fire resisting
construction (minimum REI 30).
a. Chemical stores.
b. Cleaners’ rooms.
c. Clothes storage.
d. Day rooms.
e. Smoking rooms.
f. Disposal rooms.
g. Plant rooms.
h. Linen stores.
i. Kitchens.
j. Laundry rooms.
k. Staff changing and locker rooms.
l. Store rooms.
Door closing devices
2.45 If doors fitted with a self-closing device could present an obstacle to residents, the following
hardware in accordance with BS EN 1155 is appropriate.
a. Bedrooms: free-swing door closers.
b. Circulation spaces: hold-open devices.
Sprinkler systems
2.46 Care homes should be fitted with a sprinkler system throughout the building in accordance with
Appendix E.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 27
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 40 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Section 3: Design for vertical escape
Introduction
3.1 The limits on horizontal travel escape distances mean most people should be able to independently
reach a protected escape route or final exit. The following guidance also includes measures for
people who are unable to use stairs without help.
In larger buildings, some escape stairs may need to serve as firefighting stairs, and Section 17 will also
apply.
Number of escape stairs
Mixed use buildings
3.2 If a building contains storeys, or parts of storeys, in different purpose groups, it is necessary to
consider providing either of the following.
a. Separate escape routes from the areas of different use.
b. Other effective means to protect common escape routes.
Single escape stairs
3.3 A single escape stair may serve a building (or part of a building) in the following situations.
a. When independent escape routes from areas in different purpose groups are not necessary
(see paragraph 3.2).
b. From a basement that is allowed to have a single escape route in accordance with paragraph 2.6b
and Table 2.1.
c. In small premises, provided it meets the conditions in paragraph 4.2.
d. From a building that meets both of the following conditions.
i. It has no storey with a floor level more than 11m above ground level.
ii. It is allowed to have only a single escape route in every storey in accordance with paragraph
2.6b and Table 2.1.
e. An office building with a maximum of five storeys above the ground storey where both of the
following apply.
i. The travel distance from every point in each storey does not exceed the distances given in
Table 2.1 for escape in one direction only.
ii. Every storey with a floor level more than 11m above ground level has an alternative means
of escape.
28 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 41 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
f. A factory comprising no more than either of the following.
i. For low risk buildings, two storeys above the ground storey.
ii. For normal risk buildings, one storey above the ground storey, provided the travel distance
from every point on each storey does not exceed the distances given in Table 2.1 for escape
in one direction only.
g. Process plant buildings with a maximum of 10 people.
Provision of refuges
3.4 Refuges form part of the management plan and offer relatively safe areas for people to wait for a
short period only. Refuges should meet the following conditions.
a. Refuges should be provided on every storey (except ones consisting only of plant rooms) of
each protected stairway providing an exit from that storey.
b. Refuges do not need to be located within the stair enclosure, but should enable direct access to
the stair.
c. The number of refuge spaces does not need to equal the number of wheelchair users who
may be in the building. A single refuge may be occupied by more than one person during the
evacuation procedure.
3.5 The following are both examples of satisfactory refuges.
a. An enclosure such as a compartment (Diagram 3.1), protected lobby, protected corridor or
protected stairway (Diagram 3.2).
b. An area in the open air, such as a flat roof, balcony, podium or similar place, that meets both of
the following.
i. It is protected (or remote) from any fire risk.
ii. It has its own means of escape.
3.6 Refuges should be a minimum of 900mm × 1400mm in size and accessible by someone in a
wheelchair. Where sited in a protected stairway, protected lobby or protected corridor, they should
not reduce the width of the escape route or obstruct the flow of people escaping.
3.7 Refuges should be provided with an emergency voice communication (EVC) system complying
with BS 5839-9. It should consist of Type B outstations communicating with a master station in the
building control room (if one exists) or next to the fire detection and alarm panel. In some buildings,
wireless technology may be more appropriate.
3.8 Refuges and evacuation lifts should be clearly identified. In protected lobbies and protected
stairways there should be a blue mandatory sign worded ‘Refuge – keep clear’ in addition to fire
safety signs.
3.9 Paragraph 5.32 gives guidance on using lifts, including evacuation lifts, during a fire.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 29
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 42 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
See para 3.5
Compartment A Compartment B
Fd
Refuge in accordance with paragraphs 3.6 to 3.8
Alternative escape route blocked by fre
Escape route to adjacent compartment, storey
exit or fnal exit
Compartment wall
Fd Fire doorset
Fd NOTE: People occupying Compartment A would
not reach an available refuge until they had entered
Compartment B. Two fre doorsets in the partition
are necessary in case access to one of the doorsets
is blocked by fre.
Diagram 3.1 R efuge formed by compartmentation
See para 3.5
Provision where access to the refuge is counter
to the access fow within the stairway.
Wheelchair space
Occupied by escape fow
Diagram 3.2 R efuge formed in a protected stairway
Width of escape stairs
3.10 The width of escape stairs should meet all of the following conditions.
a. It should be at least as wide as any exits giving access to the stairs.
30 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 43 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
b. It should be no less than the minimum widths given in Table 3.1.
c. It should not reduce at any point on the way to a final exit.
d. It should not exceed 1400mm in stairs taller than 30m, unless a central handrail is provided. When
a central handrail is provided, the stair width on each side of it should be considered separately
when assessing stair capacity.
3.11 Approved Document K requires stairs more than 2000mm wide in public buildings to have a
central handrail.
3.12 If an exit route from a stair is also the escape route from the ground storey and/or basement storey,
the width of the exit route may need to be increased (see paragraph 2.23).
Table 3.1 Minimum widths of escape stairs
Situation of stair Maximum number of Minimum stair width
people served(1) (mm)
1a. In a ‘residential (institutional)’ building (unless the stair 150 1000(2)
will only be used by staff)
1b. In an ‘assembly and recreation’ building and serving an 220 1100
area used for assembly purposes (unless the area is less
than 100m²)
1c. In any other building and serving an area with an Over 220 See note 3
occupancy of more than 50
2. Any stair not described above 50 800(4)
NOTES:
1. Assessed as likely to use the stair in a fire emergency.
2. Section 6 of BS 9999 recommends that firefighting stairs should be at least 1100mm wide.
3. See Table 3.2 for the size of stairs for simultaneous evacuation, and Table 3.3 for phased evacuation.
4. T o comply with the guidance in Approved Document M on minimum widths for areas accessible to disabled
people, this may need to be increased to 1000mm.
Calculation of minimum stair width
3.13 The width depends on the number of stairs provided and the escape strategy (simultaneous or
phased evacuation). If the maximum number of people needing to use escape stairs is unknown,
calculate it using the floor space factors in Appendix D.
Discounting of stairs
3.14 Regardless of escape strategy, where two or more stairs are provided, it should be assumed
that one might not be available during a fire. Each stair should be discounted in turn to ensure
the capacity of the remaining stairs is adequate. This applies to buildings with or without a sprinkler
system.
3.15 Paragraph 3.14 does not apply if either of the following applies.
a. Escape stairs are protected by a smoke control system designed in accordance with BS EN 12101-6.
b. Escape stairs are approached on each storey (except the top storey) through a protected lobby.
Despite these exceptions, at least one storey exit still needs to be discounted (paragraph 2.21).
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 31
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 44 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Paragraph 3.34 identifies cases where stairs need lobby protection.
Simultaneous evacuation
3.16 The width of escape stairs should take account of the number of people using them while
evacuating all storeys at the same time. The following stairs should be designed to allow
simultaneous evacuation.
a. All stairs serving basements.
b. All stairs serving buildings with open spatial planning.
c. All stairs serving ‘residential (other)’ (purpose group 2(b)) or ‘assembly and recreation’
(purpose group 5) buildings.
Annexes B and C of BS 9999 include designs based on simultaneous evacuation.
3.17 The capacity of stairs of widths from 1000mm to 1800mm is given in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2 Capacity of stairs for basements and for simultaneous evacuation of the building
No. of Maximum number of people served by a stair of width:
floors
served
1000mm 1100mm 1200mm 1300mm 1400mm 1500mm 1600mm 1700mm 1800mm
1 150 220 240 260 280 300 320 340 360
2 190 260 285 310 335 360 385 410 435
3 230 300 330 360 390 420 450 480 510
4 270 340 375 410 445 480 515 550 585
5 310 380 420 460 500 540 580 620 660
6 350 420 465 510 555 600 645 690 735
7 390 460 510 560 610 660 710 760 810
8 430 500 555 610 665 720 775 830 885
9 470 540 600 660 720 780 840 900 960
10 510 580 645 710 775 840 905 970 1035
NOTES:
1. The capacity of stairs that serve more than 10 storeys may be obtained by using linear extrapolation.
2. The capacity of stairs not less than 1100mm wide may also be obtained by using the formulas in paragraph 3.18.
3. Unless a central handrail is provided, stairs with a rise of more than 30m should be a maximum width of 1400mm
(see paragraph 3.10).
4. Stairs wider than 2000mm should have a central handrail (see paragraph 3.11).
3.18 As an alternative to Table 3.2, the capacity of stairs 1100mm wide or wider can be found using either
of the following formulas:
a. P = 200W + 50 (W – 0.3)(N – 1)
b. W = P + 15N – 15 / 150 + 50N
where:
32 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 45 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
P is the number of people that can be served
W is the width of the stair, in metres
N is the number of storeys served.
Separate calculations should be made for stairs serving basement storeys and stairs serving
upper storeys.
The population, P, should be divided by the number of available stairs.
The formula is useful to determine the width of stairs where people are not distributed evenly –
either within a storey or between storeys.
In the formula, 200W represents the number of people estimated to have left the stair after 2.5
minutes of evacuation, and 50 (W – 0.3)(N – 1) represents the number of people estimated to be on
the stair after 2.5 minutes of evacuation.
Worked examples
A 14 storey building contains 12 storeys of offices (ground + 11). The top two storeys contain flats
that are served by separate stairs. What is the minimum width needed for the stairs that serve
the office floors, for simultaneous evacuation? In the 11 above-ground-floor offices, 1200 people
use the stairs. (People in the ground floor offices do not use the stairs.) In this example, two
stairs are shown to satisfy the travel distance limitations.
a. The population is distributed evenly
The top office storey is at a height greater than 18m, therefore both stairs need lobby protection
(see paragraph 3.34). Because both stairs are entered at each level via a protected lobby, both
stairs can be assumed to be available (see paragraph 3.15).
P = 1200/2 = 600, N = 11
From the formula:
600 = 200W + 50 (W – 0.3)(11 – 1)
600 = 200W + (50W – 15)(10)
600 = 200W + 500W – 150
750 = 700W
W = 1070mm
Therefore both stairs should be at least 1070mm wide. But this needs to be increased to 1100mm,
because the formula applies to stairs 1100mm wide or wider (see paragraph 3.18).
This width will also be adequate when one storey exit is discounted as described in paragraph
2.21. It also complies with paragraph 3.10a (i.e. the stair widths are not less than the minimum
widths needed for 110 people in Table 2.3).
b. The population is not distributed evenly
(e.g. 1000 people occupy floors 1 to 9, and 200 occupy floors 10 and 11).
The top office storey is at a height greater than 18m, therefore both stairs need lobby protection
(see paragraph 3.34). Because both stairs are entered at each level via a protected lobby, both
stairs can be assumed to be available (see paragraph 3.15).
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 33
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 46 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
To find the width of:
• the stairs serving floors 10 and 11:
P = 200/2 = 100, N = 2
From the formula:
100 = 200W + 50 (W – 0.3)(2 – 1)
100 = 200W + (50W – 15)(1)
100 = 200W + 50W – 15
115 = 250W
W = 460mm
Therefore both stairs between the 9th floor landing and the top floor should be at least 460mm
wide. But this needs to be increased to 1100mm, because the formula applies to stairs 1100mm
wide or wider (see paragraph 3.18).
This width will also be adequate when one storey exit is discounted as described in paragraph
2.21. It also complies with paragraph 3.10a (i.e. the stair widths are not less than the minimum
widths needed for 100 people in Table 2.3).
• the stairs serving floors 1 to 9:
P = 1200/2 = 600, N = 9
From the formula:
600 = 200W + 50 (W – 0.3)(9 – 1)
600 = 200W + (50W – 15)(8)
600 = 200W + 400W – 120
720 = 600W
W = 1200mm
Therefore both stairs between the ninth floor landing and the ground floor should be at least
1200mm wide.
This width will also be adequate when one storey exit is discounted as described in paragraph
2.21. It also complies with paragraph 3.10a (i.e. the stair widths are not less than the minimum
widths needed for 134 people in Table 2.3).
Phased evacuation
3.19 Phased evacuation cannot be used in every type of building, but can be advantageous for escape
stairs in high buildings. It requires supporting facilities, such as fire detection and alarm systems, to
be provided and maintained.
In a phased evacuation, the first people to be evacuated are those with reduced mobility and those
on the storey most immediately affected by the fire. If needed, subsequent evacuation is done two
floors at a time, reducing disruption in large buildings.
Phased evacuation enables stairs to be narrower than with simultaneous evacuation, and may be
used for any building provided it is not identified in paragraph 3.16.
34 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 47 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
3.20 Phased evacuation in buildings with a storey over 30m in height introduces the potential for
escaping people to impede firefighters entering and operating within the building. This can be
addressed by consulting with the fire and rescue service about special management procedures.
In very tall buildings, typically with a storey over 45m in height, physical measures may need to be
incorporated, such as by discounting a stair.
3.21 A building (or part of a building) designed for phased evacuation should satisfy all of the following
criteria.
a. At each storey except a top storey, stairs should be approached through a protected lobby or
protected corridor.
b. At each storey, the lifts should be approached through a protected lobby (see paragraph 5.37).
c. Every floor should be a compartment floor (REI depending on height and use of the building).
d. If there is a storey over 30m above ground level, the building should be protected throughout by
an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Appendix E.
e. The building should be fitted with an appropriate fire warning system conforming to at least the
L3 standard given in BS 5839-1.
f. An internal speech communication system should provide communication between a
control point at fire and rescue service access level and a fire warden on every storey. The
recommendations for phased evacuation provided in BS 5839-1 should be followed. Where it is
deemed appropriate to install a voice alarm, this should be in accordance with BS 5839-8.
3.22 The minimum width of stairs needed for phased evacuation is given in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3 Minimum width of stairs designed for phased evacuation
Maximum number of people in any storey Stair width (mm)
100 1000
120 1100
130 1200
140 1300
150 1400
160 1500
170 1600
180 1700
190 1800
NOTES:
1. This table assumes a phased evacuation of the fire floor first followed by evacuation of not more than two floors at
a time.
2. Unless a central handrail is provided, stairs with a rise of more than 30m should be a maximum width of 1400mm
(see paragraph 3.10).
3. As an alternative to using this table, the minimum width (in mm) may be calculated from:
(P×10) – 100
where P = the number of people on the most heavily occupied storey.
However, the minimum width of a stair should be 1000mm.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 35
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 48 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Worked example using Table 3.3
What is the minimum width needed for the stairs serving a 15 storey office building (ground + 14
office floors), assuming a total population of 2500 people (excluding the ground floor population,
which does not use the stairs)? To satisfy the travel distance limitations, three stairs are required.
The building is over 45m in height and designed for phased evacuation. It has been decided to
discount one stair to take account of fire and rescue service operations as described in paragraph
3.20. Therefore:
• Number of people per storey = 2500/14 = 179.
Each remaining stair must be able to accommodate half the population of one storey (i.e. 90
people).
Thus each stair should be 1000mm wide (maximum capacity 100 people).
This width will also be adequate when one storey exit is discounted as described in paragraph 2.21. It
also complies with paragraph 3.10a (i.e. the stair widths are not less than the minimum width needed
for 90 people in Table 2.3).
• At least one of those stairs needs to be a firefighting stair, therefore a minimum width of 1100mm
is needed (see note 2 to Table 3.1).
Additional worked example using Table 3.3
What is the minimum width needed for the stairs serving a 9 storey office building (ground + 8
office floors), assuming a total population of 1920 people (excluding the ground floor population,
which does not use the stairs)? To satisfy the travel distance limitations, two stairs are required.
As both stairs need to be entered at each level through a protected lobby (see paragraph 3.21),
both stairs can be assumed to be available (see paragraph 3.15). Therefore:
• Number of people per storey = 1920/8 = 240.
• Each stair must be able to accommodate half the population of one storey
(i.e. 240/2 = 120 people).
• Thus both stairs would require a width of 1100mm (maximum capacity 120 people) according
to Table 3.3, but:
• Each storey exit needs to be able to serve 240 people, because of discounting as described
in paragraph 2.21. The minimum exit width needed for 240 people in Table 2.3 is 1200mm. As
described in paragraph 3.10a, the stair should be at least as wide as the storey exit serving it.
• The required stair width is therefore 1200mm.
Design and protection of escape stairs
Enclosure of escape stairs
3.23 Every internal escape stair should be a protected stairway (within a fire resisting enclosure). If it
is also a protected shaft (i.e. it passes from one compartment to another) or firefighting shaft,
additional guidance in Sections 8 and 17 applies.
There is one exception: an unprotected stair (e.g. an accommodation stair) may form part of an
internal route to a storey exit or final exit, provided that the distance of travel and the number of
people involved are very limited. For example, small premises (Section 4) and raised storage areas (see
paragraphs 7.6 and 7.7).
36 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 49 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Construction of escape stairs
3.24 The flights and landings of escape stairs should be constructed of materials achieving class A2-s3, d2
or better in all of the following situations.
a. If the escape stair is the only stair serving the building or part of the building, unless the building
has two or three storeys and is an office building.
b. If the escape stair is within a basement storey.
c. If the escape stair serves any storey that has a floor level more than 18m above ground or access
level.
d. If the escape stair is external, except where the stair connects the ground floor or ground level
with a floor or flat roof a maximum of 6m above or below ground level.
e. If the escape stair is a firefighting stair.
Materials achieving class B-s3, d2 or worse may be added to the top horizontal surface, except on
firefighting stairs.
3.25 Further guidance on firefighting stairs is given in Section 17. Dimensional constraints on the design of
stairs are given in Approved Document K.
Single steps
3.26 Single steps on escape routes should be prominently marked. A single step on the line of a doorway
is acceptable, subject to paragraph 5.22.
Helical stairs and spiral stairs
3.27 Helical stairs and spiral stairs may form part of an escape route provided they are designed in
accordance with BS 5395-2. If they are intended to serve members of the public, stairs should be
type E (public) stairs.
Fixed ladders
3.28 Fixed ladders should not be provided as a means of escape for members of the public. They should
only be provided where a conventional stair is impractical, such as for access to plant rooms which
are not normally occupied.
External walls adjacent to protected stairways
3.29 With some configurations of external wall, a fire in one part of a building could subject the external
wall of a protected stairway to heat (for example, where the two are adjacent at an internal angle in
the façade, as shown in Diagram 3.3).
3.30 If a protected stairway projects beyond, is recessed from or is in an internal angle of the adjoining
external wall of the building, then the minimum distance between an unprotected area of the
building enclosure and an unprotected area of the stair enclosure should be 1800mm.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 37
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 50 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
See para 3.29
Configurations of stairs and external wall
Accommodation Accommodation
1800mm min. Fire resisting construction
of adjacent building enclosure
Fire resisting construction
1800mm 1800mm of protected stairway
Stair min. Stair min.
Non-fre resisting construction
Accommodation Accommodation
Configuration A Configuration B
Diagram 3.3 E xternal protection to protected stairways
External escape stairs
3.31 Where a storey or part of the building has more than one escape route available, some of the
escape routes may be via an external escape stair, provided the following conditions are met.
a. There is at least one internal escape stair from every part of each storey (excluding plant areas).
b. In the case of an ‘assembly and recreation’ (purpose group 5) building, the route is not intended for
use by the public.
c. In the case of a ‘residential (institutional)’ (purpose group 2(a)) building, the route serves only
office or residential staff accommodation.
3.32 Any external escape stair should meet all of the following conditions (Diagram 3.4).
a. Doors to the stair should be fire resisting (minimum E 30) and be fitted with a self-closing
device, except for a single exit door from the building to the top landing of a downward-leading
external stair, provided it is the only door onto the landing.
b. Fire resisting construction (minimum RE 30) is required for the building envelope within the
following zones, measured from the flights and landings of the external stair.
i. 1800mm above and horizontally.
ii. 9m vertically below.
iii. 1100mm above the top landing of the stair (except where the stair leads from basement to
ground level).
c. Fire resisting construction (minimum RE 30) should be provided for any part of the building
(including doors) within 1800mm of the escape route from the foot of the stair to a place of
safety. This does not apply if there are alternative escape route from the foot of the external
escape stair.
d. Stairs more than 6m in height should be protected from adverse weather. Protection should
prevent the build-up of snow or ice but does not require full enclosure.
38 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 51 ---

B1
Diagram 3.4 F ire resistance of areas near to external stairs
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 39
mm0081
O N L I N E V E R S I O N
e. Glazing in areas of fire resisting construction should be fixed shut and fire resisting, in terms
of integrity but not insulation (minimum E 30).
3.33 Access to an external escape stair may be via a flat roof, provided the flat roof meets the
requirements of paragraphs 2.31 and 2.32.
See para 3.32
Example a.
No fre resistance Fire resisting window
required for door (minimum RE 30)
1100mm
above
top landing 1800mm
Fd
1800mm
9m
below stair 1800mm
fights and
Fd Fire doorset (minimum E 30) landings Ground level or a roof
Fd
Fire resisting construction or podium served by an
(minimum RE 30) independent stairway
Example b.
1100mm
above top
landing
Fd 1800mm
1800mm
9m
below stair
fights and Ground level or a roof
landings or podium served by an
independent stairway
Section A–A Section B–B
A
1800mm
B B
NOTE:
See para 3.31 on the provision
of external stairs.
See para 3.32d for weather
protection provisions. Plan A
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 52 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Access lobbies and corridors
3.34 In the following situations, protected lobbies or protected corridors should be provided at all
storeys above ground, except the top storey.
a. If the stair is the only one serving a building or part of a building that has more than one storey
above or below the ground storey.
b. If the stair serves any storey at a height of 18m or more above ground level.
c. If the building is designed for phased evacuation.
d. If the stair is a firefighting stair.
e. If the option in paragraph 3.15b has been used so as not to discount one stair when calculating
stair widths.
As an alternative to (a) to (c), a smoke control system as described in paragraph 3.15a may be used.
3.35 A protected lobby should be provided between an escape stair and a place of special fire hazard
to protect from the ingress of smoke. The lobby should have a minimum 0.4m2 of permanent
ventilation, or be protected by a mechanical smoke control system.
Exits from protected stairways
3.36 Every protected stairway should lead to a final exit, either directly or via an exit passageway.
Any protected exit corridor or stair should have the same standard of fire resistance and lobby
protection as the stair it serves. The exit from a protected stairway should comply with paragraphs
5.20 to 5.24.
Separation of adjoining protected stairways
3.37 The construction separating two adjacent protected stairways (or exit passageways) leading to
different final exits should be imperforate.
Use of space within protected stairways
3.38 A protected stairway may only include any of the following.
a. Sanitary accommodation or washrooms, as long as the accommodation is not used as
a cloakroom. A gas water heater or sanitary towel incinerator may be installed in the
accommodation, but no other gas appliance.
b. If the protected stairway is not a firefighting stair: a lift well.
c. If the protected stairway is not the only stair serving the building or part of the building: a
reception desk or enquiry office area at ground or access level. The reception or enquiry office
area should have a maximum area of 10m2.
d. If the protected stairway is not the only stair serving the building or part of the building:
cupboards enclosed with fire resisting construction.
40 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 53 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Gas service and installation pipes in protected stairways
3.39 Gas service and installation pipes and meters should not be within a protected stairway, unless
installed in accordance with the Pipelines Safety Regulations 1996 and the Gas Safety (Installation
and Use) Regulations 1998.
Basement stairs
3.40 An escape stair forming part of the only escape route from an upper storey should not continue
down to serve a basement storey. The basement storey should be served by a separate escape stair.
3.41 Where multiple escape stairs serve the upper storeys, only one needs to end at ground level. Other
stairs may connect with the basement storeys if there is a protected lobby or a protected corridor
between the stairs and accommodation at each basement level.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 41
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 54 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Section 4: Small premises
4.1 A ‘small premises’ is generally limited both in its size and in its number of occupants. When
undivided, all of its parts are likely to be clearly visible to occupants. Occupants of small premises
will be able to reach an exit quickly in an emergency and therefore a reduction in the number of
exits and stairs is acceptable.
This guidance is not applicable to small premises where highly flammable materials are sold, stored
or used.
4.2 Small premises should meet all of the following general conditions.
a. i. It should be single occupancy.
ii. It should not comprise more than a basement storey, ground storey and first storey.
iii. No storey should have a floor area more than 280m2.
b. Any kitchen or other open cooking arrangements should be at the extremity of any dead end
remote from the exits.
c. For a bar or restaurant, the seating or standing accommodation (Table D1) should be planned for
a maximum of 30 people per storey. The seating or standing accommodation for the ground
storey may be planned for 100 people if it has a final exit independent of the stair.
4.3 The following paragraphs only apply in place of those provisions elsewhere in this Approved
Document which relate to the following.
a. The number and position of exits and protected stairways.
b. Measuring distances of travel.
c. Open escape stairs.
For provisions other than those listed above, the guidance elsewhere in this Approved Document
should be followed.
Construction
4.4 Except in kitchens, ancillary offices and stores, floor areas should be undivided so exits are clearly
visible from all parts.
4.5 Store rooms should be enclosed with fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30).
Travel distance and number of escape routes
4.6 Escape routes should be sited so that the travel distance from any point of a storey to the nearest
storey exit does not exceed the distance given in Table 4.1 (see Diagrams 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3). The siting
of two or more exits or stairs should give effective alternative directions of travel from any point in
a storey.
42 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 55 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Table 4.1 Maximum travel distances in small premises
Storey Maximum travel distance (m)
Ground storey with a single exit 27
Basement or first storey with a single stair 18
Storey with more than one exit/stair 45
NOTES:
If the internal layout of partitions, fittings, etc. is not known, direct distances, rather than travel distances, should be
assessed. The direct distance should be assumed to be two-thirds of the travel distance.
The travel distance in small premises with an open stair is measured as follows.
a. In a basement: to the foot of the stair.
b. On a first storey: to the head of the stair.
See para 4.6
18m
m ax.
1
8
m
m
a x.
Protected
stairway
Basement and/or first storey
Protected
27m
m
stairway
ax.
Ground storey
NOTE: Maximum foor area in any one storey 280m2. Restricted accommodation if used as a restaurant or bar.
Diagram 4.1 M aximum travel distances in a small two or three storey premises with a single
protected stairway to each storey
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 43
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 56 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
See para 4.6
18
m
m
max.
ax.
8
m
1
NOTES:
Basement or first storey
1 . Maximum foor area in any one storey 90m2.
2 . The premises may not be used as a resturant or bar.
3 . Only acceptable in two storey premises
(frst + ground storey or basement + ground storey).
4 . Travel distances are set out in Table 4.1.
max.
m
27
3m max. Ground storey
Diagram 4.2 Maximum travel distances in a small three storey premises with a single open stair
44 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 57 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
See para 4.6
Example 1 Example 2
18m
m ax.
1
8 m
m
a x.
max. 18 m
m
1
8
m ax.
Protected
stairway
First storey First storey
3m max. 3m max.
27m 27m
Protected m Protected m
stairway
ax.
stairway
ax.
Ground storey Ground storey
max. 18 m
m
18m
m ax.
1
8 m
m
a
x.
1
8
m ax.
Protected
stairway
Basement Basement
NOTES:
1 . Maximum foor area in any one storey 90m2.
2 . Enclosed stair at ground storey level may be from either the basement or the frst storey.
3 . The premises may not be used as a resturant or bar.
4 . Travel distances are set out in Table 4.1.
Diagram 4.3 M aximum travel distances in a small three storey premises with a single stair to
each storey
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 45
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 58 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Escape stairs in small premises
4.7 A single escape stair may be used in small premises.
4.8 An open stair may be used as a means of escape if all of the following apply.
a. The stair connects a maximum of two storeys.
b. The stair enters the ground storey a maximum of 3m from the final exit (see Diagrams 4.2 and 4.3).
c. The premises is not a bar or restaurant.
d. Either of the following applies.
i. The storey is also served by a protected stairway.
ii. The stair is a single stair and the floor area of any single storey is a maximum of 90m2.
4.9 Where the premises contains three storeys and a single open stair serves a top or bottom storey,
the stair serving the other storey should be enclosed with fire resisting construction at the ground
storey level and discharge to a final exit independent of the ground storey (see Diagram 4.3).
46 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 59 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Section 5: General provisions
Introduction
5.1 This section applies to all buildings and deals with the design, construction and protection of escape
routes and service installations.
Protection of escape routes
Fire resistance of enclosures
5.2 Fire resistance test criteria are set out in Appendix B. Standards of performance are summarised in
Table B1 and Table B2. Apart from specific situations described in Sections 1 and 2, and requirements
B3 and B5, a minimum performance of REI 30 is sufficient to protect means of escape.
Fire resistance of doors
5.3 Fire resistance test criteria are set out in Appendix C. Standards of performance are summarised in
Table C1.
Fire resistance of glazed elements
5.4 If glazed elements in fire resisting enclosures and doors can only meet the required integrity
performance, their use is limited. These limitations depend on whether the enclosure forms part of
a protected shaft (see Section 8) and the provisions set out in Appendix B, Table B3. If both integrity
and insulation performance can be met, there is no restriction in this document on the use or
amount of glass.
5.5 Glazed elements should also comply with the following, where necessary.
a. If the enclosure forms part of a protected shaft: Section 8.
b. Appendix B, Table B3.
c. Guidance on the safety of glazing: Approved Document K.
Doors on escape routes
5.6 Doors should be readily openable to avoid undue delay to people escaping. Doors on escape routes
(both within and from the building) should comply with paragraphs 5.7 to 5.15. Guidance on door
closing and ‘hold open’ devices for fire doorsets is set out in Appendix C.
Door fastenings
5.7 In general, doors on escape routes (whether or not the doors are fire doorsets) should be either
of the following.
a. Not fitted with a lock, latch or bolt fastenings.
b. Fitted only with simple fastenings that are all of the following.
i. Easy to operate; it should be apparent how to undo the fastening.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 47
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 60 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
ii. Operable from the side approached by people escaping.
iii. Operable without a key.
iv. Operable without requiring people to manipulate more than one mechanism.
Doors may be fitted with hardware to allow them to be locked when rooms are empty.
In places such as hotel bedrooms, locks may be fitted that are key operated from the outside and
manually opened from the inside.
If a secure door is operated by code or combination keypad, swipe or proximity card, biometric data,
etc., a security mechanism override should be possible from the side approached by people escaping.
5.8 Electrically powered locks should return to the unlocked position in all of the following situations.
a. If the fire detection and alarm system operates.
b. If there is loss of power or system error.
c. If the security mechanism override is activated.
Security mechanism overrides for electrically powered locks should be a Type A call point as
described in BS 7273-4. The call point should be positioned on the side approached by people
escaping. If the door provides escape in either direction, a call point should be installed on both
sides of the door.
5.9 In places of assembly and shop and commercial buildings (purpose groups 4 and 5), doors on escape
routes from rooms with more than 60 people should be either of the following.
a. Not fitted with locks, latches or bolts.
b. Fitted with panic fastenings in accordance with BS EN 1125.
In non-residential buildings (purpose groups 3 to 7), some final exit doors feature security locks
that are used only when the building is empty. Such locks may be appropriate, but management
procedures must emphasise their safe use.
5.10 Guidance on door closing and ‘hold open’ devices for fire doorsets is set out in Appendix C.
Direction of opening
5.11 The door of any doorway or exit should be hung to open in the direction of escape whenever
reasonably practicable. It should always be hung to open in the direction of escape if either of the
following conditions applies.
a. More than 60 people might be expected to use it during a fire.
b. There is a very high risk of fire with potential for rapid fire growth, such as with some
industrial activities.
Amount of opening and effect on associated escape routes
5.12 All doors on escape routes should be hung to meet both of the following conditions.
a. Open by a minimum of 90 degrees.
b. Open with a swing that complies with both of the following.
i. Is clear of any change of floor level, other than a threshold or single step on the line
of the doorway.
ii. Does not reduce the effective width of any escape route across a landing.
48 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 61 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
5.13 Any door opening towards a corridor or a stair should be recessed to prevent its swing encroaching
on the effective width.
Vision panels in doors
5.14 Doors should contain vision panels in both of the following situations.
a. Where doors on escape routes divide corridors.
b. Where doors are hung to swing both ways.
Approved Document M contains guidance about vision panels in doors across accessible corridors
and Approved Document K contains guidance about the safety of glazing.
Revolving and automatic doors
5.15 Where revolving doors, automatic doors and turnstiles are placed across escape routes they should
comply with one of the following.
a. They are automatic doors of the required width and comply with one of the following conditions.
i. Their failsafe system provides outward opening from any open position.
ii. They have a monitored failsafe system to open the doors if the mains electricity supply fails.
iii. They failsafe to the open position if the power fails.
b. Non-automatic swing doors of the required width are provided immediately adjacent to the
revolving or automatic door or turnstile.
General provisions
Headroom in escape routes
5.16 Escape routes should have a minimum clear headroom of 2m. The only projections allowed below
this height are door frames.
Flooring of escape routes
5.17 Escape route floor finishes should minimise their slipperiness when wet. Finishes include the treads
of steps and surfaces of ramps and landings.
Ramps and sloping floors
5.18 A ramp forming part of an escape route should meet the provisions in Approved Document M. Any
sloping floor or tier should have a pitch of not more than 35 degrees to the horizontal.
5.19 Guidance for where there is fixed seating is given in both of the following.
a. Approved Documents K and M give guidance on the design of ramps and associated landings,
and on aisles and gangways where there is fixed seating.
b. Section 2 of this document refers to Annex D of BS 9999, which gives guidance on the design of
means of escape in places with fixed seating.
Final exits
5.20 The width of a final exit should be at least the same as the minimum required width of the escape
route it serves.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 49
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 62 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
5.21 People should be able to rapidly leave the area around the building. Direct access to a street,
passageway, walkway or open space should be available. The route away from the building should
comply with the following.
a. Be well defined.
b. If necessary, have suitable guarding.
5.22 Final exits should not present a barrier for disabled people. Where the route to a final exit does not
include stairs, a level threshold and, where necessary, a ramp should be provided.
5.23 Final exit locations should be clearly visible and recognisable.
5.24 Final exits should avoid outlets of basement smoke vents and openings to transformer chambers,
refuse chambers, boiler rooms and similar risks.
Table 5.1 Provisions for escape lighting
Use of the building or part of the building Areas requiring escape lighting
Residential All common escape routes(1), except in two storey blocks of flats
Office, industrial, storage and other non- a. Underground or windowless accommodation
residential
b. Stairs either:
• in a central core
• that serve storey(s) more than 18m above ground level
c. Internal corridors more than 30m long
d. Open-plan areas of more than 60m2
Shop and commercial, and car parks a. Underground or windowless accommodation
b. Stairs either:
• in a central core
• that serve storey(s) more than 18m above ground level
c. Internal corridors more than 30m long
d. Open-plan areas of more than 60m2
e. A ll escape routes (other than the following exception) to which
the public are admitted.(1) The exception is shops that meet all of
the following:
• have a maximum of three storeys
• have no sales floor of more than 280m2
• are not a restaurant or bar
Assembly and recreation a. All escape routes(1)
b. A ccommodation except for that which is open on one side to
view sport or entertainment during normal daylight hours
Any purpose group a. All toilet accommodation with a minimum floor area of 8m2
b. Electricity and generator rooms
c. Switch room/battery room for emergency lighting system
d. Emergency control rooms
NOTE:
1. Including external escape routes.
50 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 63 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Lighting of escape routes
5.25 All escape routes should have adequate artificial lighting. If the mains electricity power supply fails,
escape lighting should illuminate the routes listed in Table 5.1.
5.26 Escape stair lighting should be on a separate circuit from the electricity supply to any other part of
the escape route.
5.27 Escape lighting should conform to BS 5266-1.
Exit signs
5.28 Every doorway or other exit providing access to a means of escape, other than exits in ordinary use
(e.g. main entrances), should be distinctively and conspicuously marked by an exit sign in accordance
with BS ISO 3864-1 and BS 5499-4.
Advice on fire safety signs, including emergency escape signs, is given in the HSE publication Safety
Signs and Signals: Guidance on Regulations.
Some buildings may require additional signs to comply with other legislation.
Protected power circuits
5.29 To limit potential damage to cables in protected circuits, all of the following should apply.
a. Cables should be sufficiently robust.
b. Cable routes should be carefully selected and/or physically protected in areas where cables may
be exposed to damage.
c. Methods of cable support should be class A1 rated and offer at least the same integrity as the cable.
They should maintain circuit integrity and hold cables in place when exposed to fire.
5.30 A protected circuit to operate equipment during a fire should achieve all of the following.
a. Cables should achieve PH 30 classification when tested in accordance with BS EN 50200
(incorporating Annex E) or an equivalent standard.
b. It should only pass through parts of the building in which the fire risk is negligible.
c. It should be separate from any circuit provided for another purpose.
5.31 Guidance on cables for large and complex buildings is given in BS 5839-1, BS 5266-1 and BS 8519.
Lifts
Evacuation lifts
5.32 Generally, lifts should not be used when there is a fire in the building, unless their use forms part
of a management plan for evacuating people and the following conditions are met.
a. Lifts are appropriately sited and protected.
b. Lifts contain safety features to ensure they remain usable during a fire.
Guidance on the design and use of evacuation lifts is given in Annex G to BS 9999.
5.33 Where a firefighting lift is provided, it can be used to evacuate disabled people. Management plans
should describe how this would be managed, and what will happen when the fire and rescue service
arrives.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 51
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 64 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Fire protection of lift installations
5.34 Lift wells should comply with one of the following conditions.
a. Be sited within the enclosures of a protected stairway.
b. Be enclosed with fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30) when in a position that might
prejudice the means of escape.
5.35 A lift well connecting different compartments should form a protected shaft (see Section 8).
5.36 Lifts that rise within a large volume such as a mall or atrium and do not have a conventional well,
such as wall-climber or feature lifts, may be at risk if they run through a smoke reservoir. Care should
be taken to maintain the integrity of the smoke reservoir and protect people in the lift.
5.37 In buildings designed for phased evacuation or progressive horizontal evacuation, if the lift well is
not within the enclosures of a protected stairway, its entrance should be separated at every storey
by a protected lobby (minimum REI 30).
5.38 In basements and enclosed car parks, the lift should be within the enclosure of a protected
stairway. Otherwise, the lift should be approached only via a protected lobby or protected corridor
(minimum REI 30).
5.39 If a lift delivers into a protected corridor or protected lobby serving sleeping accommodation and
also serves a storey containing a high fire risk (such as a kitchen, communal areas, stores, etc.) then
the lift should be separated from the high fire risk area(s) by a protected lobby or protected corridor
(minimum REI 30).
5.40 A lift shaft serving storeys above ground level should not serve any basement if either of the
following applies.
a. There is only one escape stair serving storeys above ground level and smoke from a basement
fire would adversely affect escape routes in the upper storeys.
b. The lift shaft is within the enclosure to an escape stair that terminates at ground level.
5.41 Lift machine rooms should be sited over the lift well where possible. Where buildings or part of a
building with only one stairway make this arrangement impractical, the lift machine room should be
sited outside the protected stairway.
Refuse chutes and storage
5.42 Refuse storage chambers, refuse chutes and refuse hoppers should be sited and constructed in
accordance with BS 5906.
5.43 Refuse chutes and rooms for storing refuse should meet both of the following conditions.
a. Be separated from other parts of the building by fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30
in buildings with a top storey up to 5m above ground level; otherwise REI 60).
b. Not be situated within a protected stairway or protected lobby.
5.44 The approach to rooms containing refuse chutes or for storing refuse should comply with one
of the following conditions.
a. Be directly from the open air.
b. Be through a protected lobby with a minimum 0.2m2 of permanent ventilation.
5.45 Access openings to refuse storage chambers should not be sited next to escape routes or
final exits.
52 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 65 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Shop store rooms
5.46 Fully enclosed walk-in store rooms should be separated from retail areas with fire resisting
construction (minimum REI 30) if they negatively affect the means of escape. The fire resisting
construction is not necessary if the walk-in store room complies with either of the following.
a. Has an automatic fire detection and alarm system.
b. Is fitted with sprinklers.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 53
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 66 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B2
Requirement B2: Internal fire spread (linings)
This section deals with the following requirement from Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations 2010.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
Internal fre spread (linings)
B2. (1) T o inhibit the spread of fire within the building,
the internal linings shall—
( a) a dequately resist the spread of flame over
their surfaces; and
( b) h ave, if ignited, either a rate of heat release
or a rate of fire growth, which is reasonable in
the circumstances.
(2) I n this paragraph “internal linings” means the
materials or products used in lining any partition,
wall, ceiling or other internal structure.
Intention
In the Secretary of State’s view, requirement B2 is met by achieving a restricted spread of flame over
internal linings. The building fabric should make a limited contribution to fire growth, including a low
rate of heat release.
It is particularly important in circulation spaces, where linings may offer the main means by which
fire spreads and where rapid spread is most likely to prevent occupants from escaping.
Requirement B2 does not include guidance on the following.
a. Generation of smoke and fumes.
b. The upper surfaces of floors and stairs.
c. Furniture and fittings.
54 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 67 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B2
Section 6: Wall and ceiling linings
Classification of linings
6.1 The surface linings of walls and ceilings should meet the classifications in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1 Classification of linings
Location Classification
Small rooms of maximum internal floor area: D-s3, d2
a. 4 m2 in residential accommodation
b. 30m2 in non-residential accommodation
Other rooms (including garages) C-s3, d2
Other circulation spaces B-s3, d2(1)
NOTE:
1. Wallcoverings which conform to BS EN 15102, achieving at least class C-s3, d2 and bonded to a class A2-s3, d2
substrate, will also be acceptable.
Walls
6.2 For the purposes of this requirement, a wall includes both of the following.
a. The internal surface of internal and external glazing (except glazing in doors).
b. Any part of a ceiling which slopes at an angle greater than 70 degrees to the horizontal.
6.3 For the purposes of this requirement, a wall does not include any of the following.
a. Doors and door frames.
b. Window frames and frames in which glazing is fitted.
c. Architraves, cover moulds, picture rails, skirtings and similar narrow members.
d. Fireplace surrounds, mantle shelves and fitted furniture.
6.4 Parts of walls in rooms may be of lower performance than stated in Table 6.1, but no worse than
class D-s3, d2. In any one room, the total area of lower performance wall lining should be less than
an area equivalent to half of the room’s floor area, up to a maximum of:
a. 20m2 in residential accommodation.
b. 60m2 in non-residential accommodation.
Ceilings
6.5 For the purposes of this requirement, a ceiling includes all of the following.
a. Glazed surfaces.
b. Any part of a wall at 70 degrees or less to the horizontal.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 55
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 68 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B2
c. The underside of a gallery.
d. The underside of a roof exposed to the room below.
6.6 For the purposes of this requirement, a ceiling does not include any of the following.
a. Trap doors and their frames.
b. The frames of windows or rooflights and frames in which glazing is fitted.
c. Architraves, cover moulds, picture rails, exposed beams and similar narrow members.
Fire resisting ceilings
6.7 The need for cavity barriers in concealed floor or roof spaces can be reduced by installing a fire
resisting ceiling (minimum EI 30) below the cavity, complying with Diagram 9.3.
Rooflights
6.8 Rooflights should meet the following classifications, according to material. No guidance for
European fire test performance is currently available, because there is no generally accepted test and
classification procedure.
a. Non-plastic rooflights should meet the relevant classification in Table 6.1.
b. Plastic rooflights, if the limitations in Table 6.2 and Table 14.2 are observed, should be a minimum
class D-s3, d2 rating. Otherwise they should meet the relevant classification in
Table 6.1.
Special applications
6.9 Any flexible membrane covering a structure, other than an air-supported structure, should comply
with Appendix A of BS 7157.
6.10 Guidance on the use of PTFE-based materials for tension-membrane roofs and structures is given in
BRE report BR 274.
Fire behaviour of insulating core panels used internally
6.11 Insulating core panels consist of an inner core of insulation sandwiched between, and bonded to, a
membrane, such as galvanised steel or aluminium.
Where they are used internally they can present particular problems with regard to fire spread, and
should meet all of the following conditions.
a. Panels should be sealed to prevent exposure of the core to a fire. This includes at joints and
where services penetrate the panel.
b. In high fire risk areas, such as kitchens, places of special fire hazard, or in proximity to where hot
works occur, only class A1 cored panels should be used.
c. Fixing systems for all panels should be designed to take account of the potential for the panel
to delaminate. For instance, where panels are used to form a suspended ceiling, the fixing should
pass through the panel and support it from the lower face.
56 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 69 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B2
Other controls on internal surface properties
6.12 Guidance on the control of flame spread is given in the following sections.
a. Stairs and landings: Section 3 (escape stairs) and Section 17 (firefighting shafts).
b. Section 9: exposed surfaces above fire-protecting suspended ceilings.
Thermoplastic materials
General provisions
6.13 Thermoplastic materials that do not meet the classifications in Table 6.1 can be used as described
in paragraphs 6.14 to 6.18. No guidance for European fire test performance is currently available,
because there is no generally accepted test and classification procedure.
Thermoplastic materials are defined in Appendix B, paragraph B11. Classifications used here are
explained in paragraph B13.
Windows
6.14 Thermoplastic material classified as a TP(a) rigid product may be used to glaze external windows to
rooms, but not external windows to circulation spaces. Approved Document K includes guidance on
the safety of glazing.
Rooflights
6.15 In rooms and circulation spaces other than protected stairways, rooflights may be constructed
of thermoplastic material if they comply with both of the following.
a. The lower surface is classified as TP(a) rigid or TP(b).
b. The size and location of the rooflights follow the limits in Table 6.2 and in Table 14.2 and
Table 14.3.
Lighting diffusers
6.16 The following paragraphs apply to lighting diffusers forming part of a ceiling. Diffusers may be part
of a luminaire or used below sources of light. The following paragraphs do not apply to diffusers of
light fittings attached to the soffit of a ceiling or suspended beneath a ceiling (Diagram 6.1).
See para 6.16
a. Diffuser forming part of ceiling b. Diffusers of light fittings attached to the soffit of a ceiling or
suspended beneath a ceiling
Ceiling Ceiling
Diagram 6.1 L ighting diffuser in relation to ceiling
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 57
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 70 ---

B2
See para 6.17
5m maximum dimension of group 5m maximum dimension of group
58 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
puorg
fo
noisnemid
mumixam
m5
.nim
m3
.xam
m5
O N L I N E V E R S I O N
6.17 Diffusers constructed of thermoplastic material may be incorporated in ceilings to rooms and
circulation spaces, but not to protected stairways, if both of the following conditions are met.
a. Except for the upper surfaces of the thermoplastic panels, wall and ceiling surfaces exposed
in the space above the suspended ceiling should comply with paragraph 6.1.
b. Diffusers should be classified as one of the following.
i. TP(a) rigid – no restrictions on their extent.
ii. TP(b) – limited in their extent (see Table 6.2 and Diagram 6.2).
Suspended or stretched‑skin ceilings
6.18 A ceiling constructed from TP(a) flexible panels should meet the following conditions.
a. Have a maximum area of 5m2.
b. Be supported on all sides.
3m min.
5m² is maximum area
of di˜user and roofight in
any one 5m˜5m group
5m maximum dimension of group
Roofight or
di˜user
NOTES:
1 . Upper and lower surfaces of suspended ceiling, Separated groups of
between plastic panels, to comply with paragraph 6.1. roofights or di˜users
2 . No restriction on class D-s3, d2 di˜users or roofights
in small rooms.
3 . See note 4 to Table 6.2.
Diagram 6.2 Layout restrictions on class D-s3, d2 plastic rooflights, TP(b) rooflights and
TP(b) lighting diffusers
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 71 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B2
Table 6.2 Limitations applied to thermoplastic rooflights and lighting diffusers in suspended
ceilings and class D-s3, d2 plastic rooflights(1)
Minimum Use of space below Maximum area Maximum total area of Minimum separation
classification of the diffusers or of each diffuser diffusers and rooflights distance between
lower surface rooflight or rooflight(2) as a percentage of diffusers or
(m2) floor area of the space rooflights(2) (m)
in which the ceiling is
located (%)
TP(a) Any except No limit(3) No limit No limit
protected stairway
D-s3, d2(4) Rooms 1 50(5)(6) A distance equal to the
or TP(b) largest plan dimension
of the largest diffuser
or rooflight
(see Diagram 6.3)
5 50(5)(6) 3(6)
Circulation spaces 5 15(5) 3
except protected
stairways
NOTES:
1. This table does not apply to products that meet the provisions in Table 6.1.
2. S maller rooflights and diffusers can be grouped together provided that both of the following satisfy the
dimensions in Diagram 6.2 or 6.3.
a. The overall size of the group.
b. The space between one group and any others.
3. Lighting diffusers of TP(a) flexible rating should be used only in panels of a maximum of 5m2 each. See paragraph 6.18.
4. There are no limits on the use of class D-s3, d2 materials in small rooms. See Table 6.1.
5. T he minimum 3m separation given in Diagram 6.2 between each 5m2 group must be maintained. Therefore, in some
cases, it may not be possible to use the maximum percentage quoted.
6. Class D-s3, d2 rooflights to rooms in industrial and other non-residential purpose group buildings (purpose groups
3 to 7) may be spaced 1800mm apart provided both of the following conditions are met.
a. The rooflights are evenly distributed.
b. The total area of the rooflights does not exceed 20% of the area of the room.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 59
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 72 ---

B2
x min. y min.
Diagram 6.3 L ayout restrictions on small class D-s3, d2 plastic rooflights, TP(b) rooflights and
TP(b) lighting diffusers
60 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
.nim
y
O N L I N E V E R S I O N
See Table 6.2
dimension x
xmin.
dimension x
dimension y
Ceiling plan
Materials within this zone – at plane of ceiling – should comply with Table 6.1
Roofights
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 73 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Requirement B3: Internal fire spread (structure)
These sections deal with the following requirement from Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations 2010.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
Internal fre spread (structure)
B3. (1) The building shall be designed and constructed
so that, in the event of fire, its stability will be
maintained for a reasonable period
(2) A wall common to two or more buildings shall be
designed and constructed so that it adequately
resists the spread of fire between those buildings.
For the purposes of this sub-paragraph a house in
a terrace and a semi-detached house are each to
be treated as a separate building.
(3) Where reasonably necessary to inhibit the spread Requirement B3(3) does not apply to material alterations
of fire within the building, measures shall be to any prison provided under section 33 of the Prison Act
taken, to an extent appropriate to the size and 1952.
intended use of the building, comprising either or
both of the following—
(a) sub-division of the building with fire-resisting
construction;
(b) installation of suitable automatic fire
suppression systems.
(4) The building shall be designed and constructed so
that the unseen spread of fire and smoke within
concealed spaces in its structure and fabric is
inhibited.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 61
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 74 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Intention
In the Secretary of State’s view, requirement B3 is met by achieving all of the following.
a. For defined periods, loadbearing elements of structure withstand the effects of fire without loss
of stability.
b. Compartmentation of buildings by fire resisting construction elements.
c. Automatic fire suppression is provided where it is necessary.
d. Protection of openings in fire-separating elements to maintain continuity of the fire separation.
e. Inhibition of the unseen spread of fire and smoke in cavities, to reduce the risk of structural
failure and spread of fire and smoke, where they pose a threat to the safety of people in and
around the building.
The extent to which any of these measures are necessary is dependent on the use of the building
and, in some cases, its size, and on the location of the elements of construction.
62 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 75 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Section 7: Loadbearing elements of structure
Fire resistance standard
7.1 Elements of structure such as structural frames, beams, columns, loadbearing walls (internal and
external), foor structures and gallery structures should have, as a minimum, the fre resistance given
in Appendix B, Table B1.
7.2 Appendix B includes guidance on all of the following.
a. Provisions to ensure that where one element of structure supports or stabilises another
element of structure, the supporting element has no less fire resistance than the other element
(see Table B2).
b. Measures so that elements common to more than one building or compartment are constructed
to the standard of the more onerous of the relevant provisions.
c. Special provisions about fire resistance of elements of structure in single storey buildings.
d. Concessions in respect of fire resistance of elements of structure in basements where one or
more sides of the basement are open at ground level.
Exclusions from the provisions for elements of structure
7.3 The following are excluded from the definition of ‘element of structure’.
a. A structure that supports only a roof, unless either of the following applies.
i. The roof performs the function of a floor, such as for parking vehicles, or as a means
of escape.
ii. The structure is essential for the stability of an external wall that needs to be fire
resisting (e.g. to achieve compartmentation or for the purposes of preventing fire spread
between buildings).
b. The lowest floor of the building.
c. A platform floor.
d. A loading gallery, fly gallery, stage grid, lighting bridge or any gallery provided for similar purposes
or for maintenance and repair.
e. External walls, such as curtain walls or other forms of cladding, which transmit only self weight
and wind loads and do not transmit floor load.
NOTE: In some cases, structural members within a roof may be essential for the structural stability
system of the building. In these cases, the structural members in the roof do not just support a roof
and must demonstrate the relevant fire resistance for the building as required by paragraph 7.2a above.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 63
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 76 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Additional guidance
7.4 If a loadbearing wall is any of the following, guidance in other sections may also apply.
a. A compartment wall (including a wall common to two buildings): Section 8.
b. Enclosing a place of special fire hazard: Section 8, paragraph 8.7.
c. Protecting a means of escape: Sections 2 to 5.
d. An external wall: Sections 12 and 13.
e. Enclosing a firefighting shaft: Section 17.
7.5 If a floor is also a compartment floor, see Section 8.
Raised storage areas
7.6 The normal provisions for fire resistance may be too onerous to apply to raised, free-standing floors
(sometimes supported by racking) in single storey buildings used for industrial and storage purposes.
The introduction of raised storage areas can alter the effective number of storeys in the building
(see the definition of ‘storey’ in Appendix A).
7.7 A structure that does not have the minimum fire resistance specified in Appendix B, Table B2,
is acceptable if it satisfies all of the following conditions.
a. The structure meets both of the following conditions.
i. It has only one tier.
ii. It is used for storage purposes only.
b. The people likely to be on the floor at any one time are both of the following.
i. Few in number.
ii. Not members of the public.
c. The floor is open above and below to the room or space in which it is situated.
d. The means of escape from the floor is in accordance with Sections 2 to 5.
e. The floor meets both of the following conditions.
i. It is not more than 10m in width or length.
ii. It is a maximum of half the floor area of the space in which it is situated.
The limitations in (e) may be adjusted if any of the following apply.
f. If the lower level has an automatic fire detection and alarm system meeting the
recommendations of BS 5839-1, then the floor size may be increased to not more than 20m in
either width or length.
g. If agreed with the building control body and the fire and rescue service, then it may be possible
to vary this dimension and area. However, the safety of firefighters and the distance they may
need to travel over or under the floor must be considered.
h. If the building is fitted throughout with an automatic sprinkler system complying with Appendix
E, then no limits are set for the size of the floor.
64 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 77 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Section 8: Compartmentation/sprinklers
Provision of compartmentation
All purpose groups
8.1 All of the following should be provided as compartment walls and compartment floors and should
have, as a minimum, the fire resistance given in Appendix B, Table B1.
8.2 A wall common to two or more buildings should be a compartment wall.
8.3 Parts of a building occupied mainly for different purposes should be separated from one another
by compartment walls and/or compartment floors. Compartmentation is not needed if one of the
different purposes is ancillary to the other. See paragraphs 0.23 and 0.24.
8.4 Effective compartmentation relies on both of the following.
a. Fire resistance should be continuous at the join between elements forming a compartment.
b. Any openings between two compartments should not reduce the fire resistance.
8.5 The lowest floor in a building does not need to be a compartment floor.
Protected shafts
8.6 Stairs and service shafts connecting compartments should be protected to restrict the spread of
fire between the compartments. These are called protected shafts. Walls or floors surrounding a
protected shaft are considered to be compartment walls or compartment floors.
Places of special fire hazard
8.7 Fire resisting construction enclosing these places should achieve minimum REI 30. These walls and
floors are not compartment walls and compartment floors.
‘Residential (institutional)’ buildings including health care
8.8 All floors should be constructed as compartment floors.
8.9 Paragraphs 2.35 and 2.36 give guidance on the provisions for compartment walls in care homes that
use progressive horizontal evacuation.
‘Residential (other)’ buildings
8.10 In ‘residential (other)’ (purpose group (2(b)) buildings, all floors should be compartment floors.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 65
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 78 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Non‑residential buildings
8.11 In buildings in a non-residential purpose group (purpose groups 3 to 7), the following should be
compartment walls and compartment floors.
a. Every wall needed to divide the building to observe the compartment size limits in Table 8.1
(Diagram 8.1a).
b. Every floor, if the building or separated part of the building (see paragraph 8.19) has a top storey
that is more than 30m above ground level (Diagram 8.1b).
c. The floor of the ground storey, if the building has one or more basements (Diagram 8.1c), except
in small premises (see paragraph 4.2).
d. The floor of every basement storey (except the lowest floor), if the building or separated part
has a basement more than 10m below ground level (Diagram 8.1d).
e. If the building comprises ‘shop and commercial’, ‘industrial’ or ‘storage’ premises (purpose groups
4, 6, 7): every wall or floor dividing a building into separate occupancies (spaces used by different
organisations, whether they fall within the same purpose group or not).
f. See also the provision in paragraph 5.46 for store rooms in shops to be separated from retail
areas by fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30).
8.12 In two storey ‘shop and commercial’ or ‘industrial’ buildings (purpose groups 4 or 6), where the use of
the upper storey is ancillary to the use of the ground storey, the ground storey may be treated as a
single storey building for fire compartmentation purposes where all of the following apply.
a. The area of the upper storey does not exceed the lower of:
i. 20% of the area of the ground storey
ii. 500m2.
b. The upper storey is compartmented from the lower one.
c. The upper storey has a means of escape independent of the lower storey escape routes.
Every place of special fire hazard (see Appendix E) should be enclosed with fire resisting
construction.
Buildings containing one or more atria
8.13 Detailed advice on atria in buildings is given in Annexes B and C of BS 9999. For the purposes
of this document, BS 9999 applies only where the atrium breaches a compartment.
66 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 79 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
See para 8.11
b . Compartmentation
in buildings over 30m
see paragraph 8.11b
Compartment foor(s) or wall(s)
a . Example of compartmentation in an
unsprinklered assembly and recreation,
shop, or commercial building
see paragraph 8.11a > 30m
Storey not exceeding
2000m²
Storey not exceeding Roof
2000m²
Storey exceeding
30m Compartment
2000m² divided by
max. wall
compartment wall
Storey exceeding
Compartment
2000m² divided by
wall
compartment wall
None of the foors in this case would need to In a building with a top storey
be compartment foors, but the two storeys over 30m in height all
exceeding 2000m² would need to be divided storeys should be separated by
into compartments not more than 2000m² by compartment foors. For
compartment walls. advice on the special conditions
in atrium buildings see
The compartment walls in example (a) do not Annex B of BS 9999.
need to be in one vertical plane.
d. Deep basement
see paragraph 8.11d
c . Shallow basement
see paragraph 8.11c
> 10m
10m
max.
Only the foor of the ground All basement storeys to be
storey need be a compartment separated by compartment
foor if the lower basement is foors if any storey is at a
at a depth of not more than 10m. depth of more than 10m.
Diagram 8.1 Compartment floors: illustration of guidance in paragraph 8.11
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 67
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 80 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Table 8.1 Maximum dimensions of building or compartment (non-residential buildings)
Purpose group of building or part Height of floor of top Maximum floor area of any one storey in the
storey above ground level building or any one storey in a compartment
(m) (m2)
Single storey buildings Multi-storey
buildings
Office No limit(1) No limit No limit
Assembly and recreation, shop and
commercial:
a. Shops – without sprinkler system No limit(1) 2000 2000
Shops – with sprinkler system(2) No limit No limit 4000
b. Elsewhere – without sprinkler No limit(1) No limit 2000
system
Elsewhere – with sprinkler system(2) No limit No limit 4000
Industrial(3)
Without sprinkler system(1) Not more than 18 No limit 7000
More than 18 N/A 2000(4)
With sprinkler system(2) Not more than 18 No limit 14,000
More than 18 N/A 4000(4)
Height of floor of top Maximum Maximum Maximum
storey above ground level floor area height (m)(5) compartment
(m) (m2) volume (m3)
Single storey buildings Multi-storey
buildings
Storage(3) and other non-residential:
a. Car park for light vehicles No limit No limit No limit No limit
b. Any other building or part:
Without sprinkler system(1) Not more than 18 20,000 18 20,000
More than 18 N/A N/A 4000(4)
With sprinkler system(2) Not more than 18 No limit No limit 40,000
More than 18 8000(4)
NOTES:
This table recommends that where the maximum size limitations placed on a building without a sprinkler system are
exceeded, a sprinkler system in accordance with Appendix E should be provided.
1. See Appendix B, Table B2 for sprinkler system height requirements.
2. ‘With sprinkler system’ means that the building is fitted throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Appendix E.
3. In certain industrial and storage uses that are subject to other legislation, for example the storage of LPG and
certain chemicals, additional limitations on floor area and/or additional sprinkler provisions might apply.
4. This reduced limit applies only to storeys that are a minimum of 18m above ground level. Below this height the
higher limit applies.
5. Compartment height is measured from finished floor level to the underside of the roof or ceiling.
68 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 81 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Sprinklers
8.14 Buildings within the ‘office’, ‘shop and commercial’, ‘assembly and recreation’, ‘industrial’ and ‘storage
and other non-residential’ (except car parks for light vehicles) purpose groups (purpose groups 3
to 7(a)) require sprinklers where there is a top storey above 30m. The sprinkler system should be
provided in accordance with Appendix E.
Construction of compartment walls and compartment floors
General provisions
8.15 All compartment walls and compartment floors should achieve both of the following.
a. Form a complete barrier to fire between the compartments they separate.
b. Have the appropriate fire resistance, as given in Appendix B, Table B1 and Table B2.
8.16 Timber beams, joists, purlins and rafters may be built into or carried through a masonry or concrete
compartment wall if the openings for them are both of the following.
a. As small as practicable.
b. Fire-stopped.
If trussed rafters bridge the wall, failure of the truss due to a fire in one compartment should not
cause failure of the truss in another compartment.
8.17 Where services could provide a source of ignition, the risk of fire developing and spreading into
adjacent compartments should be controlled.
Compartment walls between buildings
8.18 Adjoining buildings should only be separated by walls, not floors. Compartment walls common to
two or more buildings should comply with both of the following.
a. Run the full height of the building in a continuous vertical plane.
b. Be continued through any roof space to the underside of the roof.
Separated parts of buildings
8.19 Compartment walls forming a separated part of a building should run the full height of the building
in a continuous vertical plane.
Separated parts can be assessed independently to determine the appropriate standard of fire
resistance in each. The two separated parts can have different standards of fire resistance.
Other compartment walls
8.20 Compartment walls not described in paragraphs 8.18 and 8.19 should run the full height of the storey
in which they are situated.
8.21 Compartment walls in a top storey beneath a roof should be continued through the roof space.
Junction of compartment wall or compartment floor with other walls
8.22 At the junction with another compartment wall or an external wall, the fire resistance of the
compartmentation should be maintained. Fire-stopping that meets the provisions in paragraphs 10.24
to 10.29 should be provided.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 69
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 82 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
8.23 At the junction of a compartment floor and an external wall with no fire resistance, the external
wall should be restrained at floor level. The restraint should reduce movement of the wall away
from the floor if exposed to fire.
8.24 Compartment walls should be able to accommodate deflection of the floor, when exposed to fire,
by either of the following means.
a. Between the wall and floor, provide a head detail that is capable of maintaining its integrity
while deforming.
b. Design the wall so it maintains its integrity by resisting the additional vertical load from the floor
above.
Where compartment walls are located within the middle half of a floor between vertical supports,
the deflection may be assumed to be 40mm unless a smaller value can be justified by assessment.
Outside this area, the limit can be reduced linearly to zero at the supports.
For steel beams that do not have the required fire resistance, reference should be made to SCI
Publication P288.
Junction of compartment wall with roof
8.25 A compartment wall should achieve both of the following.
a. Meet the underside of the roof covering or deck, with fire-stopping to maintain the continuity
of fire resistance.
b. Be continued across any eaves.
8.26 To reduce the risk of fire spreading over the roof from one compartment to another, a 1500mm
wide zone of the roof, either side of the wall, should have a covering classified as B (t4), on a
ROOF
substrate or deck of a material rated class A2-s3, d2 or better, as set out in Diagram 8.2a.
Thermoplastic rooflights that, because of paragraph 14.7, are regarded as having a B (t4)
ROOF
classification are not suitable for use in that zone.
8.27 Materials achieving class B-s3, d2 or worse used as a substrate to the roof covering and any timber
tiling battens, fully bedded in mortar or other suitable material for the width of the wall (Diagram
8.2b), may extend over the compartment wall in buildings that are both of the following.
a. A maximum of 15m high.
b. In one of the following purpose groups.
i. All residential purpose groups (purpose groups 1 and 2) other than ‘residential (institutional)’
(purpose group 2(a)).
ii. ‘Office’ (purpose group 3).
iii. ‘Assembly and recreation’ (purpose group 5).
8.28 Double-skinned insulated roof sheeting should incorporate a band of material rated class A2-s3, d2
or better, a minimum of 300mm in width, centred over the wall.
8.29 As an alternative to the provisions of paragraph 8.26 or 8.27, the compartment wall may extend
through the roof for a minimum of either of the following (see Diagram 8.2c).
a. Where the height difference between the two roofs is less than 375mm, 375mm above the top
surface of the adjoining roof covering.
b. 200mm above the top surface of the adjoining roof covering where either of the following applies.
i. The height difference between the two roofs is 375mm or more.
ii. The roof coverings either side of the wall are of a material classified as B (t4).
ROOF
70 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 83 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
See paras 8.26 to 8.29
a. ANY BUILDING OR COMPARTMENT
Roof covering over this distance to be designated B (t4) rated on deck of material
ROOF
of class A2-s3, d2 or better. Roof covering and deck could be composite structure,
e.g. profled steel cladding.
1500mm 1500mm
Double-skinned insulated roof sheeting should incorporate a band of material rated
class A2-s3, d2 or better, a minimum of 300mm in width, centred over the wall.
If roof support members pass through the wall, fre protection to these members
for a distance of 1500mm on either side of the wall may be needed to delay
distortion at the junction (see paragraph 8.16).
Wall Fire-stopping to be carried up to underside of roof covering, e.g. roof tiles.
b. RESIDENTIAL (OTHER), OFFICE, OR ASSEMBLY AND RECREATION USE, AND NOT MORE THAN 15M HIGH
Roof covering to be designated B (t4) rated for at least this distance.
ROOF
Boarding (used as a substrate) or timber tiling battens may be carried over the
wall provided that they are fully bedded in mortar (or other no less suitable
X
material) where over the wall.
Thermoplastic insulation materials should not be carried over the wall.
Double-skinned insulated roof sheeting with a thermoplastic core should
1500mm 1500mm
incorporate a band of material of class A2-s3, d2 at least 300mm wide centred
over the wall.
Sarking felt may also be carried over the wall.
If roof support members pass through the wall, fre protection to these
members for a distance of 1500mm on either side of the wall may be needed to
Wall delay distortion at the junction (see paragraph 8.16).
Fire-stopping to be carried up to underside of roof covering, boarding or slab.
X
Section X–X
Roof covering to be designated B (t4) rated for at least 1500mm either side of wall.
ROOF
Roofng battens and sarking felt may be carried over the wall.
Fire-stopping to be carried up to underside of roof covering above and below
sarking felt.
NOTES:
1. Fire-stopping should be carried over the full thickness of the wall.
2. Fire-stopping should be extended into any eaves.
3. The compartment wall does not necessarily need to be constructed of masonry.
c. ANY BUILDING OR COMPARTMENT
At least
The wall should be extended up through the roof for a height of at least
375mm At least
375mm above the top surface of the adjoining roof covering.
375mm
Roof
Where there is a height di˜erence of at least 375 mm between two roofs or
covering
Roof covering where the roof coverings on either side of the wall are B ROOF (t4) rated, the
height of the upstand/parapet wall above the highest roof may be reduced to
200mm.
Wall
Diagram 8.2 Junction of compartment wall with roof
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 71
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 84 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Openings in compartmentation
Openings in compartment walls separating buildings or occupancies
8.30 Openings in a compartment wall common to two or more buildings, or between different
occupancies in the same building, should be limited to those for either of the following.
a. A fire doorset providing a means of escape, which has the same fire resistance as the wall and is
fitted in accordance with the provisions in Appendix C.
b. The passage of a pipe that complies with the provisions in Section 10.
Openings in other compartment walls or in compartment floors
8.31 Openings should be limited to those for any of the following.
a. Fire doorsets fitted in accordance with the provisions in Appendix C.
b. Pipes, ventilation ducts, service cables, chimneys, appliance ventilation ducts or ducts encasing
one or more flue pipes, complying with the provisions in Section 10.
c. Refuse chutes of class A1 construction.
d. Atria designed in accordance with Annexes B and C of BS 9999.
e. Protected shafts that conform to the provisions in the following paragraphs.
Protected shafts
8.32 Any stair or other shaft passing directly from one compartment to another should be enclosed
in a protected shaft. Protected shafts should be used for the following only, but may also include
sanitary accommodation and washrooms.
a. Stairs.
b. Lifts.
c. Escalators.
d. Chutes.
e. Ducts.
f. Pipes.
g. Additional provisions apply for both of the following.
i. Protected shafts that are protected stairways: Sections 2 to 5.
ii. Stairs that are also firefighting stairs: Section 17.
Construction of protected shafts
8.33 The construction enclosing a protected shaft (Diagram 8.3) should do all of the following.
a. Form a complete barrier to fire between the compartments connected by the shaft.
b. Have the appropriate fire resistance given in Appendix B, Table B1, except for uninsulated glazed
screens that meet the provisions of paragraph 8.34.
c. Satisfy the provisions for ventilation and the treatment of openings in paragraphs 8.38 and 8.39.
72 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 85 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
See para 8.33
This diagram shows three common examples which illustrate the principles of the construction
of protected shafts. The elements enclosing the shaft (unless formed by adjacent external walls)
are compartment walls and foors.
Fd Fire doorset
Compartment wall
Fd Fd Fd Fd
External wall A B C
Protected shaft A Protected shaft C
is bounded on three is a services duct
sides by compartment bounded on four sides
walls and on the fourth by compartment walls
side by an external wall
Protected shaft B
is bounded on four
sides by compartment
walls
The shaft structure (including any openings) should meet the relevant provisions for both of the following:
compartment walls (see paragraphs 8.15 to 8.31) and external walls (see Sections 12 and 13 and Diagram 3.3).
Diagram 8.3 Construction of protected shafts
Uninsulated glazed screens to protected shafts
8.34 An uninsulated glazed screen may be incorporated in the enclosure to a protected shaft between a
stair and a lobby or corridor entered from the stair. The enclosure must conform to Diagram 8.4 and
meet all of the following conditions.
a. The standard of fire resistance required for the protected stairway is not more than REI 60.
b. The glazed screen complies with the following.
i. It achieves a minimum rating of E 30.
ii. It complies with the guidance on limits on areas of uninsulated glazing in Appendix B,
Table B3.
c. The lobby or corridor is enclosed with fire resisting construction achieving a minimum rating
of REI 30.
8.35 Where the measures in Diagram 8.4 are not provided, then both of the following apply.
a. The enclosing walls should comply with Appendix B, Table B1.
b. The doors should comply with Appendix B, Table B3.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 73
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 86 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
paras 8.34 and 8.35
a. With corridor b. With lobby
External wall
Fire resistance of protected shaft
Protected Protected to be a maximum of REI 60
shaft shaft
Corridor Uninsulated Fire resistance of construction
glazed screen to be a minimum of REI 30
Uninsulated (minimum RE 30)
glazed screen Fire resistance of glazed screen to be
(minimum RE 30) Protected a minimum of RE 30
lobby
Fire doorsets that are
a minimum of E 30 S
a
Diagram 8.4 Uninsulated glazed screen separating protected shaft from lobby or corridor
Pipes for oil or gas and ventilation ducts in protected shafts
8.36 A protected shaft containing a protected stairway and/or a lift should not also contain either
of the following.
a. A pipe that conveys oil, other than in the mechanism of a hydraulic lift.
b. A ventilating duct. Two exceptions are as follows.
i. A duct provided for pressurising the protected stairway to keep it smoke free.
ii. A duct provided only to ventilate the protected stairway.
A pipe that is completely separated from a protected shaft by fire resisting construction is not
considered to be contained within that shaft.
8.37 In a protected shaft, any pipe carrying natural gas or LPG should be both of the following.
a. Of screwed steel or all-welded steel construction.
b. Installed in accordance with both of the following.
i. The Pipelines Safety Regulations 1996.
ii. The Gas Safety (Installation and Use) Regulations 1998.
74 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 87 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Ventilation of protected shafts conveying gas
8.38 A protected shaft conveying piped flammable gas should be ventilated direct to the outside air,
by ventilation openings at high and low level in the shaft.
Any extension of the storey floor into the protected shaft should not compromise the free
movement of air throughout the entire length of the shaft.
Guidance on shafts conveying piped flammable gas, including the size of ventilation openings,
is given in BS 8313.
Openings into protected shafts
8.39 The external wall of a protected shaft does not normally need to have fire resistance. Situations
where there are provisions are given in paragraph 3.29 (external walls of protected stairways, which
may also be protected shafts) and paragraph 17.2 (firefighting shafts).
Openings in other parts of the enclosure to a protected shaft should be limited to the following.
a. If a wall common to two or more buildings forms part of the enclosure, only the following
openings should be made in that wall.
i. A fire doorset providing a means of escape, which has the same fire resistance as the wall
and is fitted in accordance with the provisions in Appendix C.
ii. The passage of a pipe that meets the provisions in Section 10.
b. Other parts of the enclosure (other than an external wall) should only have openings for any
of the following.
i. Fire doorsets of the appropriate fire resistance, fitted in accordance with the provisions
in Appendix C.
ii. The passage of pipes which meet the provisions in Section 10.
iii. Inlets to, outlets from and openings for a ventilation duct (if the shaft contains or serves
as a ventilating duct), meeting the provisions in Section 10.
iv. The passage of lift cables into a lift machine room (if the shaft contains a lift). If the machine
room is at the bottom of the shaft, the openings should be as small as practicable.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 75
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 88 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Section 9: Cavities
9.1 Cavities in the construction of a building provide a ready route for the spread of smoke and flame,
which can present a greater danger as any spread is concealed. For the purpose of this document,
a cavity is considered to be any concealed space.
See para 9.2
Sub-divide Roof cavity
extensive cavities
Cavity barrier
at top of cavity
Wall forming
Cavity barrier Compartment wall Accommodation
bedroom(1) or
around openings
protected
escape route(2) Sub-divide
extensive cavities
Cavity barrier at Floor cavity
compartment Compartment foor
foor Ceiling cavity
Wall forming
bedroom(1) or Cavity barrier
Accommodation
protected around edges
escape route(2)
Cavity barrier at Compartment wall
bottom of cavity Floor cavity
Compartment foor
Ceiling cavity
Sub-divide
extensive cavities
Accommodation
Compartment wall
Cavity barriers Fire-stopping NOTES:
(same resistance as compartment)
1. See paragraph 9.7.
2.See paragraph 9.5.
Diagram 9.1 Provisions for cavity barriers
76 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 89 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Provision of cavity barriers
9.2 To reduce the potential for fire spread, cavity barriers should be provided for both of the following.
a. To divide cavities.
b. To close the edges of cavities.
See Diagram 9.1. Cavity barriers should not be confused with fire-stopping details (Section 10).
Pathways around fire‑separating elements
Junctions and edges of cavities
9.3 Cavity barriers should be provided at all of the following locations.
a. At the edges of cavities, including around openings (such as windows, doors and exit/entry
points for services).
b. At the junction between an external cavity wall and every compartment floor and compartment
wall.
c. At the junction between an internal cavity wall and every compartment floor, compartment wall
or other wall or door assembly forming a fire resisting barrier.
This does not apply where a wall meets the conditions of Diagram 9.2.
9.4 It is not appropriate to complete a line of compartment walls by fitting cavity barriers above them.
The compartment wall should extend to the underside of the floor or roof above.
Protected escape routes
9.5 If the fire resisting construction of a protected escape route is either of the following.
a. Not carried to full storey height.
b. At the top storey, not carried to the underside of the roof covering.
Then the cavity above or below the fire resisting construction should be either of the following.
i. Fitted with cavity barriers on the line of the enclosure.
ii. For cavities above the fire resisting construction, enclosed on the lower side by a fire resisting
ceiling (minimum EI 30) that extends throughout the building, compartment or separated part
(see Diagram 9.3).
Cavities affecting alternative escape routes
9.6 In divided corridors, cavity barriers may be needed to prevent alternative escape routes being
affected by fire and/or smoke (see paragraph 2.27 and Diagram 2.9).
Separation of bedrooms in ‘residential (institutional)’ and ‘residential
(other)’ buildings
9.7 Where a cavity exists above or below a partition between bedrooms because the enclosure is not
carried to full storey height or to the underside of the roof covering, the guidance in paragraph 9.5
should be followed.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 77
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 90 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Double‑skinned corrugated or profiled roof sheeting
9.8 Cavity barriers are not required between double-skinned corrugated or profiled insulated roof
sheeting if the sheeting complies with all of the following.
a. The sheeting is rated class A2-s3, d2 or better.
b. Both surfaces of the insulating layer are rated class C-s3, d2 or better.
c. Both surfaces of the insulating layer make contact with the inner and outer skins of cladding
(Diagram 9.4).
See para 9.3
Close cavity at top of wall NOTES:
(unless cavity is totally
flled with insulation)
1. Materials used to close the cavity in this arrangement
do not need to achieve a specifc performance in relation
to fre resistance.
2. Domestic meter cupboards may be installed provided
Opening that the following conditions are met:
a. There are no more than two cupboards per dwelling
b. The openings in the outer wall leaf are not bigger than
800˜500mm for each cupboard
Close cavity around opening c. The inner leaf is not penetrated except by a sleeve not
more than 80˜80mm, which is fre-stopped.
Two leaves of brick or
concrete each at least 75mm 3. Materials achieving class B-s3, d2 or worse may be
thick placed within the cavity.
Diagram 9.2 Cavity walls excluded from provisions for cavity barriers
See para 9.5
Floor or roof above
NOTE:
TTh e ceiling should meet all of the following conditions.
Cavity Ceiling surface/product exposed to a . Provide a minimum fre resistance of EI 30.
cavity – class C-s3, d2 or better b . Be imperforate, except for an opening described in paragraph 9.17.
c . Extend throughout the building or compartment.
d . Not be easily demountable.
Ceiling
So˜t of ceiling – class B-s3, d2 or better
Diagram 9.3 Fire resisting ceiling below cavity
78 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 91 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
See para 9.8
Arrangement A Arrangement B
Acceptable without cavity barriers Cavity barriers necessary
Cavity barrier
Insulation
The insulation should make contact with both skins of sheeting. See also Diagram 8.2a regarding the need for fre-stopping
where such roofs pass over the top of a compartment wall.
Diagram 9.4 Provisions for cavity barriers in double-skinned insulated roof sheeting
Extensive cavities
Maximum dimensions of cavities
9.9 Cavity barriers should be used to divide any cavity (including roof spaces). Table 9.1 sets out
maximum dimensions for undivided cavities.
Table 9.1 Maximum dimensions of cavities in buildings other than dwellings
(purpose groups 2 to 7)
Location of cavity Class of surface/product exposed in cavity Maximum dimension
(excluding the surface of any pipe, cable or conduit, in any direction (m)
or any insulation to any pipe)
Between roof and a ceiling Any 20
Any other cavity Class C-s3, d2 or better 20
Worse than Class C-s3, d2 10
9.10 Table 9.1 does not apply to any of the following cavities.
a. A cavity in a wall that is fire resisting only because it is loadbearing.
b. A cavity in a wall that meets the conditions of Diagram 9.2.
c. A floor or roof cavity above a fire resisting ceiling (Diagram 9.3) that extends throughout the
building or compartment to a maximum of 30m.
d. In a building not put to residential or institutional use, a cavity that does not contain materials
achieving class B-s3, d2 or worse and is formed either:
i. behind the external skin of an external cladding system with a masonry or concrete inner
leaf a minimum of 75mm thick
ii. by overcladding an existing masonry (or concrete) external wall or an existing concrete roof.
e. A cavity that meets the conditions of paragraph 9.8.
f. A cavity below a floor next to the ground or next to oversite concrete, if either:
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 79
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 92 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
i. the cavity is less than 1000mm in height
ii. the cavity is not normally accessible by people, unless there are openings in the floor such
that it is possible for materials to accumulate in the cavity (in which case cavity barriers
should be provided and access should be provided to the cavity for cleaning).
9.11 If a single room with a ceiling cavity or underfloor cavity exceeds the dimensions in Table 9.1, cavity
barriers need only be provided on the line of the enclosing walls/partitions of that room, if both of
the following apply.
a. The cavity barriers are a maximum of 40m apart.
b. The surface of the material/product exposed in the cavity is class C-s3, d2 or better.
9.12 If the cavity is over an undivided area that exceeds 40m in any direction, there is no limit to its size
if all of the following conditions are met.
a. Together, the room and cavity form a compartment separated from the rest of the building.
b. Both of the following apply.
i. The building is fitted with an automatic fire detection and alarm system that conforms
to BS 5839-1.
ii. Detectors are only required in the cavity to satisfy BS 5839-1.
c. If the cavity is used as a plenum then the recommendations for recirculating air distribution
systems in Section 32 of BS 9999 are followed.
d. Both of the following apply.
i. The exposed surface of the material/product used in the construction of the cavity is
class B-s3, d2 or better.
ii. The supports and fixings in the cavity are class A1.
e. Any pipe insulation system should achieve class C-s3, d2 rating or better.
f. Any electrical wiring in the cavity is laid in metal trays or metal conduit.
g. Other than those in (d)–(f), any materials are class A2-s3, d2 rated or better.
Construction and fixings for cavity barriers
9.13 Cavity barriers, tested from each side separately, should provide a minimum of both of the
following:
a. 30 minutes’ integrity (E 30)
b. 15 minutes’ insulation (I 15).
They may be formed by a construction provided for another purpose if it achieves the same
performance.
9.14 Cavity barriers in a stud wall or partition, or provided around openings, may be formed of any of
the following.
a. Steel, a minimum of 0.5mm thick.
b. Timber, a minimum of 38mm thick.
c. Polythene-sleeved mineral wool, or mineral wool slab, under compression when installed in
the cavity.
80 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 93 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
d. Calcium silicate, cement-based or gypsum-based boards, a minimum of 12mm thick.
These do not necessarily achieve the performance specified in paragraph 9.13.
NOTE: Cavity barriers provided around openings may be formed by the window or door frame if
the frame is constructed of steel or timber of the minimum thickness in (a) or (b), as appropriate.
9.15 Cavity barriers should be tightly fitted to a rigid construction and mechanically fixed in position.
If this is not possible (e.g. where a cavity barrier joins to slates, tiles, corrugated sheeting or similar
materials) the junction should be fire-stopped.
9.16 Cavity barriers should be fixed so their performance is unlikely to be made ineffective by any of the
following.
a. Movement of the building due to subsidence, shrinkage or temperature change, and movement
of the external envelope due to wind.
b. During a fire, collapse of services penetrating the cavity barriers, either by the failure of the
supporting system or through degradation of the service itself (e.g. by melting or burning).
c. During a fire, failure of the cavity barrier fixings. (In roof spaces, where cavity barriers are fixed
to roof members, there is no expectation of fire resistance from roof members provided for the
purpose of support.)
d. During a fire, failure of any material or construction to which cavity barriers abut. (For example,
a suspended ceiling that continues over a fire resisting wall or partition collapses, and the
cavity barrier fails prematurely because the ceiling was not designed to provide a minimum fire
resistance of EI 30.)
Openings in cavity barriers
9.17 Openings should be limited to the following.
a. Fire doorsets with a minimum rating of E 30, fitted in accordance with Appendix C.
b. The passage of pipes that follow the provisions in Section 10.
c. The passage of cables or conduits containing one or more cables.
d. Openings fitted with a suitably mounted and appropriate fire damper.
e. Ducts that are either of the following.
i. Fire resisting (minimum E 30).
ii. Fitted with a suitably mounted and appropriate fire damper where they pass through the
cavity barrier.
9.18 If a cavity barrier is provided above or below a partition between bedrooms in ‘residential
(institutional)’ and ‘residential (other)’ (purpose groups 2(a) and 2(b)) buildings, and the partition is not
a fire resisting partition, then paragraph 9.17 does not apply. However, both of the following apply.
a. The number of openings in the barrier should be kept to a minimum.
b. Any penetrations should be sealed to restrict the passage of smoke with an appropriate
fire-stopping material.
NOTE: For further guidance on openings in cavity barriers see Section 10.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 81
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 94 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Section 10: Protection of openings and
fire‑stopping
Introduction
10.1 Every joint, imperfect fit and opening for services through a fire-separating element should be
sealed with fire-stopping to ensure the fire resistance of the element is not impaired. Fire-stopping
delays the spread of fire and, generally, the spread of smoke as well.
Openings for pipes
10.2 Pipes passing through a fire-separating element, unless in a protected shaft, should comply with one
of the alternatives A, B or C below.
Alternative A: Proprietary seals (any pipe diameter)
10.3 Provide a proprietary, tested sealing system that will maintain the fire resistance of the wall, floor or
cavity barrier.
Alternative B: Pipes with a restricted diameter
10.4 Where a proprietary sealing system is not used, fire-stop around the pipe, keeping the opening
for the pipe as small as possible. The nominal internal diameter of the pipe should not exceed the
relevant dimension given in Table 10.1.
Alternative C: Sleeving
10.5 A pipe with a maximum nominal internal diameter of 160mm may be used with a sleeve made out
of a high melting point metal, as shown in Diagram 10.1, if the pipe is made of one of the following.
a. Lead.
b. Aluminium.
c. Aluminium alloy.
d. Fibre-cement.
e. uPVC (pipes should also comply with either BS 4514 or BS 5255).
A high melting point metal means any metal (such as cast iron, copper or steel) which, if exposed
to a temperature of 800°C, will not soften or fracture to the extent that flame or hot gas will pass
through the wall of the pipe.
82 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 95 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
See para S10e.e5 par
Fire-separating element
NOTES:
˜ 1000mm ˜ 1000mm 1 . Make the opening in the fre-separating element
as small as possible and provide fre-stopping
between pipe and fre-separating element.
2 . See Table 10.1 for materials specifcation.
3 . The sleeve should be class A1 rated.
Pipe specifcation (b) Sleeve (or pipe)
of specifcation (a)
to be in contact
Fire-stopping with pipe
Diagram 10.1 Pipes penetrating fire-separating elements
Table 10.1 Maximum nominal internal diameter of pipes passing through a
fire-separating element
Situation Pipe material and maximum nominal internal diameter (mm)
(a) (b) (c)
High melting point Lead, aluminium, Any other material
metal(1) aluminium alloy,
uPVC(2), fibre-
cement
1. Structure (but not a wall separating buildings) 160 110 40
enclosing a protected shaft that is not a stairway
or a lift shaft
2. A ny other situation 160 40 40
NOTES:
1. A ny metal (such as cast iron, copper or steel) which, if exposed to a temperature of 800°C, will not soften or
fracture to the extent that flame or hot gas will pass through the wall of the pipe.
2. uPVC pipes that comply with either BS 4514 or BS 5255.
Mechanical ventilation and air‑conditioning systems
General provisions
10.6 Ductwork should not help to transfer fire and smoke through the building. Terminals of exhaust
points should be sited away from final exits, cladding or roofing materials achieving class B-s3, d2 or
worse and openings into the building.
10.7 Ventilation ducts supplying or extracting air directly to or from a protected stairway should not also
serve other areas. A separate ventilation system should be provided for each protected stairway.
10.8 A fire and smoke damper should be provided where ductwork enters or leaves each section of
the protected escape route it serves. It should be operated by a smoke detector or suitable fire
detection system. Fire and smoke dampers should close when smoke is detected. Alternatively, the
methods set out in paragraphs 10.15 and 10.16 and Diagrams 10.2 and 10.3 may be followed.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 83
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 96 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
10.9 In a system that recirculates air, smoke detectors should be fitted in the extract ductwork before
both of the following.
a. The point where recirculated air is separated from air to be discharged to the outside.
b. Any filters or other air cleaning equipment.
When smoke is detected, detectors should do one of the following.
a. Cause the system to immediately shut down.
b. Switch the ventilation system from recirculating mode to extraction to divert smoke outside the
building.
10.10 Non-domestic kitchens, car parks and plant rooms should have separate and independent extraction
systems. Extracted air should not be recirculated.
10.11 Under fire conditions, ventilation and air-conditioning systems should be compatible with smoke
control systems and need to be considered in their respective design.
Ventilation ducts and flues passing through fire‑separating elements
General provisions
10.12 If air handling ducts pass through fire-separating elements, the fire performance of the elements
should be maintained using one or more of the following four methods. In most ductwork systems,
a combination of the four methods is best.
a. Method 1 – thermally activated fire dampers.
b. Method 2 – fire resisting enclosures.
c. Method 3 – protection using fire resisting ductwork.
d. Method 4 – automatically activated fire and smoke dampers triggered by smoke detectors.
10.13 Further information on fire resisting ductwork is given in the ASFP Blue Book.
Kitchen extract
10.14 Methods 1 and 4 should not be used for extract ductwork serving kitchens. The likely build-up of
grease within the duct can adversely affect dampers.
Ducts passing through protected escape routes
10.15 Method 1 should not be used for extract ductwork passing through the enclosures of protected
escape routes (Diagrams 10.2 and 10.3), as large volumes of smoke can pass thermal devices without
triggering them.
10.16 An ES classified fire and smoke damper which is activated by a suitable fire detection system
(method 4) may also be used for protected escape routes.
84 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 97 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
See para 10.15
Ductwork enclosed in fre resisting
construction classifed EI X in accordance
with BS EN 13501-2 (fre exposure from the
duct side), or fre resisting ductwork
Ductwork classifed EIS X in accordance with
serving area BS EN 13501-3, where X is the fre
Fd resistance rating (in minutes) of the
walls of the protected escape route
Fd
Protected stairway
Protected lobby
Ductwork
serving area
Fd Fire doorset
Ductwork
serving area
Fd
NOTE: Ventilation ducts which serve other parts
of the building should not supply or extract air
directly to or from a protected escape route.
Diagram 10.2 Ductwork passing through protected escape routes – method 2 or method 3
See para 10.15
ES leakage rated fre and smoke damper
conforming to BS EN 13501-3/BS EN 1366-2
Protected stairway
Fd
Protected lobby
Fd
Smoke detection system in accordance with
SD
BS 5839-1 to activate ES damper
SD SD
Ductwork Ductwork Fd Fire doorset
serving area serving
area
Fd NOTE: Ventilation ducts which serve other
parts of the building should not supply or extract
air directly to or from a protected escape route.
Diagram 10.3 Ductwork passing through protected escape routes – method 4
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 85
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 98 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Installation and specification of fire dampers
10.17 Both fire dampers and fire and smoke dampers should be all of the following.
a. Sited within the thickness of the fire-separating elements.
b. Securely fixed.
c. Sited such that, in a fire, expansion of the ductwork would not push the fire damper through the
structure.
10.18 Access to the fire damper and its actuating mechanism should be provided for inspection, testing
and maintenance.
10.19 Fire dampers should meet both of the following conditions.
a. Conform to BS EN 15650.
b. Have a minimum E classification of 60 minutes or to match the integrity rating of the fire
resisting elements, whichever is higher.
10.20 Fire and smoke dampers should meet both of the following conditions.
a. Conform to BS EN 15650.
b. Have a minimum ES classification of 60 minutes or to match the integrity rating of the fire
resisting elements, whichever is higher.
10.21 Smoke detectors should be sited so as to prevent the spread of smoke as early as practicable by
activating the fire and smoke dampers. Smoke detectors and automatic release mechanisms used
to activate fire dampers and/or fire and smoke dampers should conform to BS EN 54-7 and
BS 5839-3 respectively.
Further information on fire dampers and/or fire and smoke dampers is given in the ASFP Grey Book.
Sleeping risks
10.22 Where the use of the building involves a sleeping risk, fire dampers or fire and smoke dampers
should be actuated by both of the following.
a. Smoke detector-controlled automatic release mechanisms.
b. Thermally actuated devices.
However, in a situation where both of the following are true:
a. all occupants of the building can be expected to make an unaided escape
b. an L1 fire detection and alarm system is installed in accordance with BS 5839-1
then both of the following exceptions may be made.
i. If, on the detection of smoke, the fire alarm system signals the immediate evacuation of all the
occupants of the building, then fire dampers and/or fire and smoke dampers do not need to be
actuated by smoke detectors.
ii. If the building is divided into fire compartments and the alarm system is arranged to signal the
immediate evacuation of the occupants of the fire compartment in which the fire has been
detected, then smoke detector-operated fire dampers or fire and smoke dampers need only be
provided where ductwork enters or leaves the fire compartment.
86 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 99 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Flues, etc.
10.23 The wall of a flue, duct containing flues or appliance ventilation duct(s) should have a fire resistance
(REI) that is at least half of any compartment wall or compartment floor it passes through or is built
into (Diagram 10.4).
See para 10.23
a. Flue passing through compartment wall or floor b. Flue built into compartment wall
Compartment
wall or foor
Flue Compartment Compartment
wall wall
Flue wall
Flue walls should have a fre resistance of at least In each case fue walls should have a fre resistance of at least
one half of that required for the compartment wall one half of that required for the compartment wall and be of
or foor and be of class A1 construction. class A1 construction.
Diagram 10.4 Flues penetrating compartment walls or floors
Fire‑stopping
10.24 In addition to any other provisions in this section, both of the following conditions should be met.
a. Joints between fire-separating elements should be fire-stopped.
b. Openings through a fire resisting element for pipes, ducts, conduits or cable should be all of the
following.
i. As few as possible.
ii. As small as practicable.
iii. Fire-stopped (allowing thermal movement in the case of a pipe or duct).
NOTE: The fire-stopping around fire dampers, fire resisting ducts, fire and smoke dampers and
smoke control ducts should be in accordance with the manufacturer or supplier’s installation
instructions.
10.25 Materials used for fire-stopping should be reinforced with (or supported by) materials rated class
A2-s3, d2 or better to prevent displacement in both of the following cases.
a. Where the unsupported span is greater than 100mm.
b. Where non-rigid materials are used (unless subjected to appropriate fire resistance testing to
show their suitability).
10.26 Proprietary, tested fire-stopping and sealing systems are available and may be used. Different
materials suit different situations and not all are suitable in every situation.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 87
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 100 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
10.27 Other fire-stopping materials include the following.
a. Cement mortar.
b. Gypsum-based plaster.
c. Cement-based or gypsum-based vermiculite/perlite mixes.
d. Glass fibre, crushed rock, blast furnace slag or ceramic-based products (with or without
resin binders).
e. Intumescent mastics.
These may be used in situations appropriate to the particular material. Not all materials will
be suitable in every situation.
10.28 Guidance on the design, installation and maintenance of measures to contain fires or slow their
spread is given in Ensuring Best Practice for Passive Fire Protection in Buildings produced by the
Association for Specialist Fire Protection (ASFP).
10.29 Further information on generic systems, their suitability for different applications and guidance
on test methods is given in the ASFP Red Book.
88 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 101 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Section 11: Special provisions for car parks
11.1 Car parks call for different measures to restrict fire spread within buildings for the following reasons.
a. The fire load is well defined.
b. The probability of fire spreading from one storey to another in a well ventilated car park is low.
Guidance is therefore given for three ventilation scenarios.
Open‑sided car parks
Natural ventilation
11.2 For the purposes of assessing fire resistance, a building, compartment or separated part containing a
car park may be regarded as open-sided when it complies with all of the following.
a. There are no basement storeys.
b. Each storey is naturally ventilated by permanent openings at each car parking level. The
aggregate vent area is a minimum of 1/20 of that level’s floor area, at least half of which is
provided equally by two opposite walls (1/80 on each side). The remaining free area can be
distributed wherever possible.
c. Where one element of structure supports, carries or stabilises another, the fire resistance of
the supporting element at least matches the minimum period of fire resistance for the other
element.
d. In mixed use buildings, the fire resistance of any element that supports, carries or stabilises an
element in the other part of the building should at least match the minimum period of fire
resistance for the other element.
e. All materials used in the construction should be class A1 rated, except for the following.
i. Any surface finish applied to a floor or roof of the car park (or within any building,
compartment or separated part adjoining the structure enclosing it), if the finish meets
requirements B2 and B4.
ii. Any fire doorset.
iii. Any attendant’s kiosk not exceeding 15m2 in area.
iv. Any shop mobility facility.
Car parks that are not open‑sided
11.3 For car parks that do not have the ventilation set out in paragraph 11.2, the required fire resistance
is given in Appendix B, Table B2. Ventilation should be either natural or mechanical. See Approved
Document F for additional guidance on ventilation of car parks.
Natural ventilation
11.4 Each storey should be ventilated by permanent openings at each car parking level. The openings can
be at ceiling level. The aggregate free vent area should be a minimum of 1/40 of that level’s floor
area, at least half of which should be provided equally by two opposite walls (1/160 on each side).
The remaining free area can be distributed wherever possible.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 89
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 102 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Mechanical ventilation
11.5 If the minimum standard of natural ventilation is not possible, a system of mechanical ventilation
should be provided that complies with all of the following.
a. The system should be both of the following.
i. Independent of any other ventilating system (other than any system that provides day to
day ventilation to the car park).
ii. Designed to operate at 10 air changes per hour during a fire.
b. The system should run in two parts, each of which is:
i. capable of extracting 50% of the rates set out in item (a)
ii. able to operate alone or with the other part
iii. provided with an independent power supply capable of operating if the main supply fails.
c. 50% of the outlets should be at high level and 50% at low level.
d. The system should use E, I and S ductwork in accordance with BS EN 1366-8.
For further information on equipment for removing hot smoke, refer to BS EN 12101-3. An alternative
method of providing smoke ventilation from enclosed car parks is given in BS 7346-7.
90 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 103 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Requirement B4: External fire spread
These sections deal with the following requirement from Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations 2010. Section 12 also refers to regulation 7(2) of the Building Regulations 2010. Guidance
on regulation 7(1) can be found in Approved Document 7.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
External fre spread
B4. (1) The external walls of the building shall adequately
resist the spread of fire over the walls and from
one building to another having regard to the
height, use and position of the building.
(2) The roof of the building shall adequately resist
the spread of fire over the roof and from one
building to another, having regard to the use and
position of the building.
Regulation
Regulation 7 – Materials and workmanship
(1) Building work shall be carried out—
(a) with adequate and proper materials which—
(i) are appropriate for the circumstances in which
they are used,
(ii) are adequately mixed or prepared, and
(iii) are applied, used or fixed so as adequately
to perform the functions for which they are
designed; and
(b) in a workmanlike manner.
(1A) Building work shall be carried out so that relevant
metal composite material does not become part
of an external wall, or specified attachment, of any
building.
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), building work shall be
carried out so that materials which become part of an
external wall, or specified attachment, of a relevant
building are of European Classification A2-s1, d0 or
A1 (classified in accordance with the reaction to fire
classification).
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 91
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 104 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Regulation continued
(3) P aragraph (2) does not apply to—
(a) cavity trays when used between two leaves of
masonry;
(b) any part of a roof (other than any part of a roof
which falls within paragraph (iv) of regulation
2(6)) if that part is connected to an external
wall;
(c) door frames and doors;
(d) electrical installations;
(da) fibre optic cables;
(e) insulation and water proofing materials used
below ground level or up to 300mm above that
level;
(f) intumescent and fire stopping materials where
the inclusion of the materials is necessary to
meet the requirements of Part B of Schedule 1;
(g) membranes;
(h) seals, gaskets, fixings, sealants and backer rods;
(ha) components associated with a solar shading
device, excluding components whose primary
function is to provide shade or deflect sunlight,
such as the awning curtain or slats;
(i) thermal break materials where the inclusion of
the materials is necessary to meet the thermal
bridging requirements of Part L of Schedule 1;
(j) window frames and glass; or
(k) materials which form the top horizontal floor
layer of a balcony which are of European
Classification A1fl or A2fl-sl (classified
in accordance with the reaction to fire
classification) provided that the entire layer has
an imperforate substrate under it.
(4) In this regulation—
(a) a “relevant building” means a building with a
storey (not including roof-top plant areas or any
storey consisting exclusively of plant rooms) at
least 18 metres above ground level and which—
(i) contains one or more dwellings;
(ii) contains an institution; or
(iii) contains a room for residential purposes; and
(b) “above ground level” in relation to a storey means
above ground level when measured from the lowest
ground level adjoining the outside of a building to
the top of the floor surface of the storey.
92 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 105 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Intention
Resisting fire spread over external walls
The external envelope of a building should not contribute to undue fire spread from one part of a
building to another part. This intention can be met by constructing external walls so that both of
the following are satisfied.
a. The risk of ignition by an external source to the outside surface of the building and spread of
fire over the outside surface is restricted.
b. The materials used to construct external walls, and attachments to them, and how they are
assembled do not contribute to the rate of fire spread up the outside of the building.
The extent to which this is necessary depends on the height and use of the building.
Resisting fire spread from one building to another
The external envelope of a building should not provide a medium for undue fire spread to
adjacent buildings or be readily ignited by fires in adjacent buildings. This intention can be met by
constructing external walls so that all of the following are satisfied.
a. The risk of ignition by an external source to the outside surface of the building is restricted.
b. The amount of thermal radiation that falls on a neighbouring building from window
openings and other unprotected areas in the building on fire is not enough to start a fire in
the other building.
c. Flame spread over the roof and/or fire penetration from external sources through the roof
is restricted.
The extent to which this is necessary depends on the use of the building and its position in relation
to adjacent buildings and therefore the site boundary.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 93
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 106 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Section 12: Resisting fire spread over
external walls
Introduction
12.1 The external wall of a building should not provide a medium for fre spread if that is likely to be a risk
to health and safety. Combustible materials and cavities in external walls and attachments to them
can present such a risk, particularly in tall buildings. The guidance in this section is designed to reduce
the risk of fre spread as well as the risk of ignition from fames coming from adjacent buildings.
Fire resistance
12.2 This section provides guidance on resisting fre spread over external walls; however, it does not deal
with fre resistance of external walls. An external wall may need fre resistance to meet the provisions
of Section 2 (Design for horizontal escape), Section 3 (Design for vertical escape),
Section 7 (Loadbearing elements of structure), Section 13 (Resisting fre spread from one building
to another) or Section 17 (Access to buildings for frefghting personnel).
Combustibility of external walls
12.3 The external walls of buildings other than those described in regulation 7(4) of the Building
Regulations should achieve either of the following.
a. Follow the provisions given in paragraphs 12.5 to 12.10, which provide guidance on all of
the following.
i. External surfaces.
ii. Materials and products.
iii. Cavities and cavity barriers.
b. Meet the performance criteria given in BRE report BR 135 for external walls using full-scale test
data from BS 8414-1 or BS 8414-2.
12.4 In relation to buildings of any height or use, consideration should be given to the choice of materials
(including their extent and arrangement) used for the external wall, or attachments to the wall (e.g.
balconies, etc.), to reduce the risk of fre spread over the wall.
External surfaces
12.5 The external surfaces (i.e. outermost external material) of external walls should comply with the
provisions in Table 12.1. The provisions in Table 12.1 apply to each wall individually in relation to its
proximity to the relevant boundary.
94 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 107 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Table 12.1 Reaction to fire performance of external surface of walls
Building type Building height Less than 1000mm from the 1000mm or more from the relevant
relevant boundary boundary
‘Relevant buildings’ as defined in Class A2-s1, d0(1) or better Class A2-s1, d0(1) or better
regulation 7(4) (see paragraph 12.15)
All ‘residential’ More than 11m Class A2-s1, d0(2) or better Class A2-s1, d0(2) or better
purpose groups
11m or less Class B-s3, d2(2) or better No provisions
(purpose groups 1
and 2)
Assembly and More than 18m Class B-s3, d2(2) or better From ground level to 18m: class C-s3, d2(3)
recreation or better
From 18m in height and above: class B-s3,
d2(2) or better
18m or less Class B-s3, d2(2) or better Up to 10m above ground level: class C-s3,
d2(3) or better
Up to 10m above a roof or any part of the
building to which the public have access:
class C-s3, d2(3) or better(4)
From 10m in height and above: no
minimum performance
Any other building More than 18m Class B-s3, d2(2) or better From ground level to 18m: class C-s3, d2(3)
or better
From 18m in height and above: class B-s3,
d2(2) or better
18m or less Class B-s3, d2(2) or better No provisions
NOTES:
In all cases all the following provisions apply.
• Regulation 7(1A) prohibits the use of relevant metal composite materials in the external walls, and specified
attachments, of all buildings of any height (see paragraphs 12.12 and 12.13).
• The advice in paragraph 12.4 should always be followed.
In addition to the provisions within this table, buildings with a storey 18m or more above ground level should also
meet the provisions of paragraph 12.6.
In addition to the provisions within this table, buildings with a storey 11m or more above ground level should also
meet the provisions of paragraph 12.7.
1. The restrictions for these buildings apply to all the materials used in the external wall and specified attachments
(see paragraphs 12.14 to 12.17 for further guidance).
2. Profiled or flat steel sheet at least 0.5 mm thick with an organic coating of no more than 0.2mm thickness is also
acceptable.
3. Timber cladding at least 9mm thick is also acceptable.
4. 10m is measured from the top surface of the roof.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 95
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 108 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Materials and products
12.6 In a building with a storey 18m or more in height (see Diagram D6 in Appendix D) any insulation
product, fller material (such as the core materials of metal composite panels, sandwich panels and
window spandrel panels but not including gaskets, sealants and similar) etc. used in the construction
of an external wall should be class A2-s3, d2 or better (see Appendix B). This restriction does not
apply to masonry cavity wall construction which complies with Diagram 9.2 in Section 9. Where
regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over all the provisions in this paragraph.
12.7 In buildings that include a ‘residential’ purpose (purpose groups 1 and 2) with a storey 11m or more
in height (see Diagram D6 in Appendix D) any insulation product, fller material (such as the core
materials of metal composite panels, sandwich panels and window spandrel panels but not including
gaskets, sealants and similar) etc. used in the construction of an external wall should be class A2-s1, d0
or better (see Appendix B). This restriction does not apply to masonry cavity wall construction which
complies with Diagram 9.2 in Section 9. Where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over all
the provisions in this paragraph.
12.8 Best practice guidance for green walls (also called living walls) can be found in Fire Performance of
Green Roofs and Walls, published by the Department for Communities and Local Government.
Where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over all the provisions in this paragraph.
Cavities and cavity barriers
12.9 Cavity barriers should be provided in accordance with Section 9.
12.10 In the case of an external wall construction of a building which, by virtue of paragraph 9.10d (external
cladding system with a masonry or concrete inner leaf), is not subject to the provisions of Table 9.1,
the surfaces which face into cavities should also meet the provisions of Table 12.1 and provisions in
Section 9, but where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over the guidance provided in
Table 12.1 and Section 9.
Balconies
12.11 In buildings that include a ‘residential’ purpose (purpose groups 1 and 2) with a storey 11m or more in
height (see Diagram D6 in Appendix D) balconies should meet either of the following conditions.
a. Only contain materials achieving class A1 or A2-s1, d0, except for any of the following.
i. Cavity trays when used between two leaves of masonry.
ii. Intumescent and fire-stopping materials where the inclusion of the materials is necessary to
meet the requirements of Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations 2010.
iii. Membranes.
iv. Seals, gaskets, fxings, sealants and backer rods.
v. Thermal break materials where the inclusion of the materials is necessary to meet the
thermal bridging requirements of Part L of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations 2010.
vi. Any material achieving class A1f or A2f-s1 when it forms the top horizontal foor layer of a
balcony and is provided with an imperforate substrate under it which extends to the full size
of the class A1f or A2f-s1 material.
vii. Electrical installations.
viii. Fibre optic cables.
96 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 109 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
b. Achieve both of the following conditions.
i. Have an imperforate soft which extends to the full area of the balcony, achieves a minimum
REI 30 rating and is constructed of materials achieving class A2-s1, d0 or better.
ii. Materials achieving class B-s1, d0 or worse extending beyond the boundary of a single
compartment should include a band of material rated class A2-s1, d0 or better, a minimum of
300mm in width centred on that boundary line.
Where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over all the provisions in this paragraph.
Metal composite materials
12.12 Regulation 7(1A) prohibits the use of relevant metal composite materials in the external walls, and
specifed attachments, of all buildings of any height.
12.13 Relevant metal composite materials are defned (in regulation 2(6)(c)) as any panel or sheet, having
a thickness of no more than 10mm which is composed of a number of layers two or more of which
are made of metal, alloy or metal compound and one or more of which is a substantial layer made
of a material having a gross calorifc value of more than 35MJ/kg when tested in accordance with BS
EN ISO 1716. A substantial layer is defned as a layer which is at least 1mm thick or has a mass per unit
area of at least 1kg/m².
Regulation 7(2) and requirement B4
Materials
12.14 Regulation 7(1)(a) requires that materials used in building work are appropriate for the circumstances
in which they are used. Regulation 7(2) sets requirements in respect of external walls and specifed
attachments in relevant buildings.
NOTE: Further guidance on regulation 7(1) can be found in HM Government’s Manual to the Building
Regulations.
12.15 Regulation 7(2) applies to any building with a storey at least 18m above ground level (as measured
in accordance with Diagram D6 in Appendix D) and which contains one or more dwellings; an
institution; or a room for residential purposes. It requires that all materials which become part of
an external wall or specifed attachment achieve class A2-s1, d0 or class A1 in accordance with
BS EN 13501-1, other than those exempted by regulation 7(3).
NOTE: The above includes student accommodation, care homes, sheltered housing, hospitals,
dormitories in boarding schools, hotels, hostels and boarding houses. See regulation 7(4) for the
defnition of relevant buildings.
12.16 External walls and specifed attachments are defned in regulation 2(6) and these defnitions include
any parts of the external wall as well as balconies, solar panels and solar shading.
12.17 Regulation 7(3) provides an exemption for certain components found in external walls and specifed
attachments.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 97
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 110 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Material change of use
12.18 Regulations 5(k) and 6(3) provide that, where the use of a building is changed such that the building
becomes a building described in regulation 7(4), the construction of the external walls, and specifed
attachments, must be investigated and, where necessary, work must be carried out to ensure they
only contain materials achieving class A2-s1, d0 or class A1, other than those exempted by regulation
7(3).
Solar shading devices
12.19 Regulation 7(2) requires that the curtain and or slats of solar shading devices in a relevant building (as
defned in regulation 7(4)) achieve class A1 or A2-s1, d0. The curtain of solar shading devices cannot be
classifed as a membrane in accordance with regulation 7(3).
12.20 Solar shading devices installed up to 4.5m above ground level are not required to meet the
requirements of regulation 7(2).
Additional considerations
12.21 The provisions of regulation 7 apply in addition to requirement B4. Therefore, for buildings described
in regulation 7(4), the potential impact of any products incorporated into or onto the external
walls and specifed attachments should be carefully considered with regard to their number, size,
orientation and position.
12.22 Particular attention is drawn to the following points.
a. Membranes used as part of the external wall construction above ground level should achieve a
minimum of class B-s3, d0. Roofng membranes do not need to achieve a minimum of class A2-s1,
d0 when used as part of a roof connecting to an external wall.
b. Internal linings should comply with the guidance provided in Section 4.
c. Any part of a roof should achieve the minimum performance as detailed in Section 12.
d. As per regulation 7(3), window frames and glass (including laminated glass) are exempted from
regulation 7(2). Window spandrel panels and infll panels must comply with regulation 7(2).
e. Thermal breaks are small elements used as part of the external wall construction to restrict
thermal bridging. There is no minimum performance for these materials. However, they should
not span two compartments and should be limited in size to the minimum required to restrict
the thermal bridging (the principal insulation layer is not to be regarded as a thermal break).
f. Regulation 7(2) only applies to specifed attachments. Shop front signs and similar attachments
are not covered by the requirements of regulation 7(2), although attention is drawn to paragraph
12.22g.
g. While regulation 7(2) applies to materials which become part of an external wall or specifed
attachment, consideration should be given to other attachments to the wall which could impact
on the risk of fre spread over the wall.
h. Any material achieving class A1f or A2f-s1 in accordance with BS EN 13501-1 is exempted when it
meets both of the following conditions.
i. It forms the top horizontal foor layer of a balcony.
ii. It is provided with an imperforate substrate under it which extends to the full size of the
class A1f or A2f-s1 material.
98 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 111 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Section 13: Resisting fire spread from one
building to another
Introduction
13.1 The following assumptions enable a reasonable standard of resistance to the spread of fire to
be specified.
a. The size of a fire depends on the compartmentation within the building. A fire may involve
a complete compartment, but will not spread to other compartments.
b. The intensity of fire is related to the building use, but can be moderated by a sprinkler system.
c. Fires in ‘residential’ and ‘assembly and recreation’ buildings (purposes groups 1, 2 and 5) represent
a greater risk to life.
d. A building on the far side of the relevant boundary meets both of the following conditions.
i. Has a similar elevation to the one in question.
ii. Is at the same distance from the common boundary.
e. The radiated heat passing through any part of the fire resisting external wall may be discounted.
13.2 Where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over the provisions within this section.
13.3 If a reduced separation distance between buildings, or increased amount of unprotected area, is
required, smaller compartments should be considered.
Boundaries
13.4 The fire resistance of a wall depends on its distance from the relevant boundary (see Diagram 13.1).
Separation distances are measured to boundaries to ensure that the location and design of buildings
on adjoining sites have no influence on the building under consideration.
13.5 The boundary that a wall faces is the relevant boundary (Diagram 13.2). It may be one of the
following.
a. The site boundary.
b. The centre line of a space where further development is unlikely, such as a road, railway, canal or
river.
c. An assumed notional boundary between two buildings on the same site (Diagram 13.3) where
either of the following conditions is met.
i. One or both of the buildings are in the ‘residential’ or ‘assembly and recreation’ purpose
groups (purpose group 1, 2 or 5).
ii. The buildings will be operated/managed by different organisations.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 99
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 112 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
See para 13.4
Wall on or very close to the Wall not on, or not very close Wall su°ciently distant from
relevant boundary: very limited to, but not su°ciently far from relevant boundary to be a
amounts of unprotected area relevant boundary that it can be a 100% unprotected area
wholly unprotected area
Fire resisting from
Fire resisting No provision
inside: reduced
from both sides for fre resistance
insulation criterion
Relevant boundary
Amount of unprotected
area dependent on distance
from relevant boundary
Diagram 13.1 Principles of space separation
100 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 113 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
See para 13.5
NOTES:
This boundary is at less than
80 degrees to side C and is therefore This diagram sets out the rules
relevant to side C that apply in respect of a
boundary for it to be
considered as a relevant
boundary.
< 80°
For a boundary to be relevant
it should comply with one of
the following:
C
This boundary
This boundary coincides is parallel to a. Coincide with the side of
with and is therefore A Building B and therefore the building (A).
1
relevant to side A relevant to b. Be parallel to the side of the
side B building (Bor B).
B 1 1 2
2 c. Be at an angle of maximum
80 degrees to the side
The boundary is of the building (C).
parallel to side B
2
But the relevant boundary
may be the centre line of a
road, railway, canal or river
Diagram 13.2 Relevant boundary
See para 13.5
Site
boundary
Building A Notional Building B
boundary
Compliance with the provisions for Compliance with the provisions for
space separation in respect of building A space separation in respect of building B
NOTES:
The notional boundary should be set in the area between the two buildings using the following rules:
1. The notional boundary is assumed to exist in the space between the buildings and is positioned so that one of the buildings would
comply with the provisions for space separation having regard to the amount of its unprotected area. In practice, if one of the
buildings is existing, the position of the boundary will be set by the space separation factors for that building.
2. The siting of the new building, or the second building if both are new, can then be checked to see that it also complies, using the
notional boundary as the relevant boundary for the second building.
Diagram 13.3 Notional boundary
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 101
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 114 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Unprotected areas and fire resistance
13.6 Parts of an external wall with less fire resistance than the appropriate amount given in Appendix B,
Table B2, are called unprotected areas.
13.7 Where a fire resisting external wall has an external surface material that is worse than class B-s3,
d2 and is more than 1mm thick, that part of the wall should be classified as an unprotected area
equating to half its area (Diagram 13.4).
External walls on, and within 1000mm of, the relevant boundary
13.8 Unprotected areas should meet the conditions in Diagram 13.5 and the rest of the wall should be fire
resisting from both sides.
External surface materials facing the boundary should be class B-s3, d2 or better.
External walls 1000mm or more from the relevant boundary
13.9 Unprotected area should not exceed the result given by one of the methods in paragraph 13.17, and
the rest of the wall (if any) should be fre resisting but only from the inside of the building.
External walls of protected stairways
13.10 Exclude external walls of stairways in a protected shaft when assessing unprotected areas (see
Diagram 3.3)
See para 13.7
b
Area of fre resisting wall with
materials more than 1mm thick and
with a reaction to fre performance
worse than class B-s3, d2 = a˜b
Area of wall counted as
unprotected area = 0.5a˜b
Area of fre resisting wall with
materials having a reaction to fre
performance better than class B-s3, d2
a
Diagram 13.4 Status of materials achieving class B-s3, d2 or worse as unprotected area
102 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 115 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Small unprotected areas
13.11 In an otherwise protected wall, small unprotected areas may be ignored where they meet the
conditions in Diagram 13.5.
See para 13.11
Roof Roofs pitched at an
angle of less than 70
degrees may be
disregarded for
a a separation distance
purposes
b b
a
b b b b The unprotected area
of the external wall
of a stairway forming
a protected shaft
b may be disregarded
a
for separation
distance purposes
Compartment Compartment
foor wall
Dimensional restrictions
Represents an unprotected area of not
more than 1m2 which may consist of a 4000mm minimum distance
two or more smaller areas within an
area of 1000mm˜1000mm b 1500mm minimum distance
Represents an area of not
more than 0.1m2
Diagram 13.5 S mall unprotected areas that may be disregarded in assessing the separation
distance from the boundary
Large uncompartmented buildings
13.12 For the purposes of assessing unprotected area, parts of walls of uncompartmented buildings that
are more than 30m above mean ground level may be ignored.
Canopies
13.13 Where both of the following apply, separation distances may be determined from the wall rather
than from the edge of the canopy (Diagram 13.6).
a. The canopy is attached to the side of a building.
b. The edges of the canopy are a minimum of 2m from the relevant boundary.
Canopies that fall within class 6 or class 7 of Schedule 2 to the regulations (Exempt Buildings and
Work) are exempt from the Building Regulations.
13.14 Space separation may be disregarded if a canopy is all of the following.
a. Free-standing.
b. Above a limited risk or controlled hazard, for example over petrol pumps.
c. A minimum of 1000mm from the relevant boundary.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 103
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 116 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
See para 13.13
Canopy arrangement Loading bay arrangement
2m min. Canopy 2m min.
Relevant Relevant Loading platform
boundary boundary
Building line Building line
Distance to Distance to
relevant boundary relevant boundary
measured from measured from
building line building line
NOTE: Projections from the building line, such as a canopy or a loading platform, can be ignored when
assessing separation distance. This does not apply where the canopy is enclosed by side walls.
Diagram 13.6 The effect of a canopy on separation distance
Roofs
13.15 Roofs with a pitch of more than 70 degrees to the horizontal should be assessed in accordance with
this section. Vertical parts of a pitched roof, such as dormer windows, should be included, only if
the slope of the roof exceeds 70 degrees.
It is a matter of judgement whether a continuous run of dormer windows that occupies most of
a steeply pitched roof should be treated as a wall rather than a roof.
Portal frames
13.16 Portal frames are often used in single storey industrial and commercial buildings where there may
be no need for fire resistance of the structure (requirement B3). However, where a portal framed
building is near a relevant boundary, the external wall near the boundary may need fire resistance
to restrict the spread of fire between buildings. It is generally accepted that a portal frame acts
as a single structural element because of the moment-resisting connections used, especially at
the column/rafter joints. Thus, in cases where the external wall of the building cannot be wholly
unprotected, the rafter members of the frame, as well as the column members, may need to be fire
protected. The design method for this is set out in SCI Publication P313.
NOTE: The recommendations in the SCI publication for designing the foundation to resist
overturning do not need to be followed if the building is fitted with a sprinkler system in
accordance with Appendix E.
NOTE: Normally, portal frames of reinforced concrete can support external walls requiring a similar
degree of fire resistance without specific provision at the base to resist overturning.
104 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 117 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
NOTE: Existing buildings may have been designed to comply with all of the following guidance,
which is also acceptable.
a. The column members are fixed rigidly to a base of sufficient size and depth to resist overturning.
b. There is brick, block or concrete protection to the columns up to a protected ring beam
providing lateral support.
c. There is some form of roof venting to give early heat release. (The roof venting could be, for
example, PVC rooflights covering some 10% of the floor area and evenly spaced over the floor
area.)
Methods for calculating acceptable unprotected area
13.17 Two simple methods are given for calculating the acceptable amount of unprotected area in an
external wall that is a minimum of 1000mm from any point on the relevant boundary. More precise
methods are described in BRE report BR 187 and may be used instead. When using BR 187 the
following radiation intensity at each unprotected area should be assumed.
a. 84kW/m2 if the purpose group of the building is ‘residential’ (purpose groups 1 or 2), ‘office’
(purpose group 3) or ‘assembly and recreation’ (purpose group 5) or if the building is an open-
sided multi-storey car park (purpose group 7(b)).
b. 168kW/m2 if the purpose group of the building is ‘shop and commercial’ (purpose group 4),
‘industrial’ (purpose group 6) or ‘storage and other non-residential’ (purpose group 7(a)).
Method 1
13.18 This method applies to small buildings intended to be used for ‘residential (other)’ purposes.
13.19 The building should not exceed three storeys in height (excluding basements) or 24m in length. Each
side of the building should meet the limits stated in Diagram 13.7. Any small unprotected areas falling
within the limits shown in Diagram 13.5 can be ignored.
See para 13.19
24m max.
Minimum distance (a) Maximum total area of
between side of building unprotected areas (m2)
and relevant boundary (m)
1 5.6
2 12
3 18
a
4 24
5 30
6 No limit
Relevant boundary
Diagram 13.7 Permitted unprotected areas in small residential buildings
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 105
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 118 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Method 2
13.20 This method may be used for buildings or compartments intended for any use and for which
method 1 is not appropriate.
13.21 Except for an open-sided car park in purpose group 7(b) (see paragraph 11.2), the building should
not exceed 10m in height. Each side of the building should meet the limits in Table 13.1. Areas falling
within the limits in Diagram 13.5 can be ignored.
Table 13.1 Permitted unprotected areas in small buildings or compartments
Minimum distance between side of building and relevant boundary (m) Maximum total percentage of
unprotected area (%)
Purpose groups
Residential, office, assembly and Shop and commercial, industrial,
recreation storage and other non-residential
(1) (2) (3)
Not applicable 1 4
1 2 8
2.5 5 20
5 10 40
7.5 15 60
10 20 80
12.5 25 100
NOTES:
1. Intermediate values may be obtained by interpolation.
2. For buildings fitted with an automatic sprinkler system, see paragraph 13.22.
3. For open-sided car parks in purpose group 7(b), the distances set out in column (1) may be used instead of those in
column (2).
4. The total percentage of unprotected area is found by dividing the total unprotected area by the area of a
rectangle that encloses all the unprotected areas, and multiplying the result by 100.
Sprinkler systems
13.22 If a building is fitted throughout with a sprinkler system in accordance with Appendix E, either of
the following is permitted.
a. The boundary distance can be halved, to a minimum distance of 1m.
b. The amount of unprotected area can be doubled.
Atrium buildings
13.23 If a building contains one or more atria, the recommendations in clause B8 of BS 9999 should be
followed.
106 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 119 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Section 14: Resisting fire spread over roof
coverings
Introduction
14.1 ‘Roof covering’ describes one or more layers of material, but not the roof structure as a whole.
14.2 Provisions for the fire properties of roofs are given in other parts of this document.
a. Requirement B1 – for roofs that are part of a means of escape.
b. Requirement B2 – for the internal surfaces of rooflights as part of internal linings.
c. Requirement B3 – for roofs that are used as a floor and for roofs passing over a compartment wall.
d. Section 13 – the circumstances in which a roof is subject to the provisions for space separation.
Separation distances
14.3 Separation distance is the minimum distance from the roof, or part of the roof, to the relevant
boundary (paragraph 13.5). Table 14.1 sets out separation distances by the type of roof covering and
the size and use of the building.
In addition, roof covering products (and/or materials) defined in Commission Decision 2000/553/
EC of 6 September 2000, implementing Council Directive 89/106/EEC, can be considered to fulfil
all of the requirements for the performance characteristic ‘external fire performance’ without the
need for testing, provided that any national provisions on the design and execution of works are
fulfilled, and can be used without restriction.
14.4 The performance of rooflights is specified in a similar way to the performance of roof coverings.
Plastic rooflights may also be used.
Plastic rooflights
14.5 Table 14.2 and Diagram 14.1 set the limitations for using plastic rooflights whose lower surface has a
minimum rating of class D-s3, d2.
14.6 Table 14.3 sets the limitations for using thermoplastic materials with a TP(a) rigid or TP(b)
(see also Diagram 14.1) classification. The method of classifying thermoplastic materials is given in
Appendix B.
14.7 Other than for the purposes of Diagram 8.2, polycarbonate or uPVC roofights achieving a minimum
rating of class C-s3, d2 can be regarded as having a B (t4) classifcation.
ROOF
Unwired glass in rooflights
14.8 When used in rooflights, unwired glass a minimum of 4mm thick can be regarded as having a
B (t4) classification.
ROOF
Thatch and wood shingles
14.9 If the performance of thatch or wood shingles cannot be established, they should be regarded
as having an E (t4) classification in Table 14.1.
ROOF
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 107
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 120 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
See paras 14.5 and 14.6
Roofight*
max. area 5m2
* Or group of roofights amounting to no more than 5m2
† Class D-s3, d2 roofights to rooms in industrial and other
3m† minimum non-residential purpose groups may be spaced 1800mm
apart provided the roofights are evenly distributed and
between any
do not exceed 20% of the area of the room
two roofights
in any direction
NOTES:
1. There are restrictions on the use of plastic roofights in the
guidance to requirement B2 in Section 6.
Roofight* 2. Surrounding roof covering to be class B-s3, d2
max. area 5m2 for at least 3m distance.
3. Where Diagram 8.2a or 8.2b applies, roofights should be at
least 1500mm from the compartment wall.
Diagram 14.1 L imitations on spacing and size of plastic rooflights that have a class D-s3, d2 or
TP(b) lower surface
Table 14.1 Limitations on roof coverings
Designation(1) of covering of roof Distance from any point on relevant boundary
or part of roof
Less than 6m At least 6m At least 12m At least 20m
BROOF(t4) l l l l
CROOF(t4) l l l l
DROOF(t4) l (1)(2)l(2)(3) (1)l(2) l
EROOF(t4) l (1)(2)l(2)(3) (1)l(2) (1)l(2)
FROOF(t4) l l l (1)(2)l(2)(3)
l Acceptable. l Not acceptable.
NOTES:
Separation distances do not apply to enclosed/covered walkways. However, see Diagram 8.2 if the roof passes over
the top of a compartment wall.
Polycarbonate and uPVC rooflights that achieve a class C-s3, d2 rating by test may be regarded as having a B (t4)
ROOF
classification.
1. The designation of external roof surfaces is explained in Appendix B
2. Not acceptable on any of the following buildings.
a. Industrial, storage or other non-residential purpose group (purpose groups 6 and 7) buildings of any size.
b. Any other buildings with a cubic capacity of more than 1500m3.
3. Acceptable on buildings not listed in (2) if both of the following apply.
a. Part of the roof has a maximum area of 3m2 and is a minimum of 1500mm from any similar part.
b. The roof between the parts is covered with a material rated class A2-s3, d2 or better.
108 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 121 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Table 14.2 Class D-s3, d2 plastic rooflights: limitations on use and boundary distance
Minimum Space that rooflight can serve Minimum distance from any point on
classification on relevant boundary to rooflight with an
lower surface(1) external designation(2) of:
E
ROOF
(t4) or D
ROOF
(t4) FROOF(t4)
Class D-s3, d2 a. Balcony, verandah, carport, covered way or loading 6m 20m
bay that has at least one
longer side wholly or permanently open
b. D etached swimming pool
c. C onservatory, garage or outbuilding, with a
maximum floor area of 40m2
d. Circulation space(3) (except a protected stairway) 6m(4) 20m(4)
e. Room(3)
NOTES:
None of the above designations are suitable for protected stairways.
Polycarbonate and uPVC rooflights that achieve a class C-s3, d2 rating by test (see paragraph 14.7) may be regarded as
having a B (t4) classification.
ROOF
Where Diagram 8.2a or 8.2b applies, rooflights should be a minimum of 1500m from the compartment wall.
If double-skinned or laminate products have upper and lower surfaces of different materials, the greater distance
applies.
1. See also the guidance to requirement B2 in Section 6.
2. The designation of external roof surfaces is explained in Appendix B.
3. Single-skinned rooflight only, in the case of non-thermoplastic material.
4. The rooflight should also meet the provisions of Diagram 14.1.
Table 14.3 TP(a) and TP(b) thermoplastic rooflights: limitations on use and boundary distance
Minimum Space that rooflight can serve Minimum distance from any point on
classification on relevant boundary to rooflight with an
lower surface(1) external surface classification(1) of:
TP(a) TP(b)
1. TP(a) rigid Any space except a protected stairway 6m(2) Not applicable
2. TP(b) a. B alcony, verandah, carport, covered way or Not applicable 6m
loading bay, which has at least one longer side
wholly or permanently open
b. D etached swimming pool
c. C onservatory, garage or outbuilding, with a
maximum floor area of 40m2
d. Circulation space(3) (except a protected stairway) Not applicable 6m(4)
e. Room(3)
NOTES:
None of the above designations are suitable for protected stairways.
Polycarbonate and uPVC rooflights that achieve a class C-s3, d2 rating by test may be regarded as having a B (t4) designation.
ROOF
Where Diagram 8.2a or 8.2b applies, rooflights should be at least 1500mm from the compartment wall.
If double-skinned or laminate products have upper and lower surfaces of different materials, the greater distance
applies.
1. See also the guidance to requirement B2 in Section 6.
2. No limit in the case of any space described in 2(a), (b) and (c).
3. Single-skinned rooflight only, in the case of non-thermoplastic material.
4. The rooflight should also meet the provisions of Diagram 14.1.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 109
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 122 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Requirement B5: Access and facilities for the
fire service
These sections deal with the following requirement from Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations 2010.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
Access and facilities for the fre service
B5. (1) T he building shall be designed and constructed
so as to provide reasonable facilities to assist fire
fighters in the protection of life.
(2) R easonable provision shall be made within the site
of the building to enable fire appliances to gain
access to the building.
Intention
Provisions covering access and facilities for the fire service are to safeguard the health and safety of
people in and around the building. Their extent depends on the size and use of the building. Most
firefighting is carried out within the building. In the Secretary of State’s view, requirement B5 is met
by achieving all of the following.
a. External access enabling fire appliances to be used near the building.
b. Access into and within the building for firefighting personnel to both:
i. search for and rescue people
ii. fight fire.
c. Provision for internal fire facilities for firefighters to complete their tasks.
d. Ventilation of heat and smoke from a fire in a basement.
If an alternative approach is taken to providing the means of escape, outside the scope of this
approved document, additional provisions for firefighting access may be required. Where deviating
from the general guidance, it is advisable to seek advice from the fire and rescue service as early as
possible (even if there is no statutory duty to consult).
110 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 123 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Section 15: Vehicle access
Buildings not fitted with fire mains
15.1 For small buildings (up to 2000m2, with a top storey that is a maximum of 11m above ground level),
vehicle access for a pump appliance should be provided to whichever is the less onerous of the
following.
a. 15% of the perimeter.
b. Within 45m of every point of the footprint of the building (see Diagram 15.1).
15.2 For all other buildings, provide vehicle access in accordance with Table 15.1.
15.3 Every elevation to which vehicle access is provided should have a door, a minimum of 750mm wide,
to give access into the building. The maximum distance between doors, or between a door and the
end of the elevation, is 60m (e.g. a 150m elevation would need a minimum of two doors).
Table 15.1 Fire and rescue service vehicle access to buildings not fitted with fire mains
Total floor area(1) of Height of floor of top storey Provide vehicle Type of appliance
building (m²) above ground (m)(2) access to:
Up to 2000 Up to 11 See paragraph 15.1 Pump
Over 11 15% of perimeter High reach
2000–8000 Up to 11 15% of perimeter Pump
Over 11 50% of perimeter High reach
8000–16,000 Up to 11 50% of perimeter Pump
Over 11 50% of perimeter High reach
16,000–24,000 Up to 11 75% of perimeter Pump
Over 11 75% of perimeter High reach
Over 24,000 Up to 11 100% of perimeter Pump
Over 11 100% of perimeter High reach
NOTES:
1. The sum of the area of all storeys in the building (excluding basements).
2. For storage buildings (purpose group 7(a)), measure height to mean roof level (see Appendix D).
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 111
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 124 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
See para 15.1
C D
A B E F
J I
L K H G
N M
Plan of building AFGL where AL and FG are walls in common If the dimensions of the building are such that Table 15.1
with other buildings. requires vehicle access, the green shaded area illustrates
one possible example of 15% of the perimeter. Note: There
The footprint of the building is the maximum aggregate plan should be a door into the building in this length (see
perimeter found by the vertical projection of any overhanging paragraph 15.3).
storey onto a ground storey (i.e. ABCDEFGHMNKL).
If the building does not have walls in common with other
The perimeter of the building for the purposes of Table 15.1 is the buildings, the lengths AL and FG would be included in the
sum of the lengths of the two external walls, taking account of the perimeter.
footprint, i.e. (A to B to C to D to E to F) + (G to H to M to N to K to L).
Diagram 15.1 Example of building footprint and perimeter
112 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 125 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Buildings fitted with fire mains
15.4 For buildings fitted with dry fire mains, both of the following apply.
a. Access should be provided for a pumping appliance to within 18m of each fire main inlet
connection point. Inlets should be on the face of the building.
b. The fire main inlet connection point should be visible from the parking position of the appliance,
and satisfy paragraph 16.10.
15.5 For buildings fitted with wet fire mains, access for a pumping appliance should comply with both of
the following.
a. Within 18m, and within sight of, an entrance giving access to the fire main.
b. Within sight of the inlet to replenish the suction tank for the fire main in an emergency.
15.6 Where fire mains are provided in buildings for which Sections 16 and 17 make no provision, vehicle
access may be as described in paragraphs 15.4 and 15.5, rather than Table 15.1.
Design of access routes and hardstandings
15.7 Access routes and hardstandings should comply with the guidance in Table 15.2. Requirements can
only apply to the site of the works.
It may not be reasonable to upgrade the route across a site to a small building. The building control
body, in consultation with the fire and rescue service, should consider options from doing no work
to upgrading certain features, such as sharp bends.
15.8 Where access to an elevation is provided in accordance with Table 15.1, the following requirements
should be met, depending on the building height.
a. Buildings up to 11m, excluding small buildings (paragraph 15.1): pump appliance access should be
provided adjacent to the building for the specified percentage of the total perimeter.
b. Buildings over 11m: access routes should comply with the guidance in Diagram 15.2.
15.9 Where access is provided for high reach appliances in accordance with Table 15.1, overhead
obstructions (such as cables and branches) should be avoided in the zone shown in Diagram 15.2.
15.10 Dead-end access routes longer than 20m require turning facilities, as in Diagram 15.3. Turning facilities
should comply with the guidance in Table 15.2.
Table 15.2 Typical fire and rescue service vehicle access route specification
Appliance type Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum
width of road width of turning circle turning circle clearance carrying
between gateways (m) between between height (m) capacity
kerbs (m) kerbs (m) walls (m) (tonnes)
Pump 3.7 3.1 16.8 19.2 3.7 12.5
High reach 3.7 3.1 26.0 29.0 4.0 17.0
NOTES:
1. F ire appliances are not standardised. The building control body may, in consultation with the local fire and rescue
service, use other dimensions.
2. T he roadbase can be designed to 12.5 tonne capacity. Structures such as bridges should have the full 17-tonne
capacity. The weight of high reach appliances is distributed over a number of axles, so infrequent use of a route
designed to accommodate 12.5 tonnes should not cause damage.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 113
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 126 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
See paras 15.8 and 15.9
Overhead obstructions to be avoided in this zone
Face of building at ground level or vertical plane
of projecting upper storey
a b
c d
Obstruction
Hardstanding or access road
Type of appliance
Turntable Hydraulic
ladder platform
dimension (m) dimension (m)
a. Maximum distance of near edge of hardstanding from building 4.9 2.0
b. Minimum width of hardstanding 5.0 5.5
c. Minimum distance of further edge of hardstanding from building 10.0 7.5
d. Minimum width of unobstructed space (for swing of appliance platform) N/A 2.2
NOTES:
1. Hardstanding for high reach appliances should be as 2. Fire appliances are not standardised. Some fre services have
level as possible and should have a maximum appliances with a greater weight or di°erent size.
gradient of 1 in 12. In consultation with the fre and rescue service, the building
control body should adopt the relevant dimensions and ground
loading capacity.
Diagram 15.2 R elationship between building and hardstanding/access roads for high reach
fire appliances
114 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 127 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
SeeS epea rpaa 1r5 .10
Fire and rescue service vehicles should not have to reverse more than 20m from the end of an access road.
Turning circle, hammerhead
or other point at which
vehicle can turn
Building Exit
20m max.
Diagram 15.3 Turning facilities
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 115
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 128 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Section 16: Fire mains and hydrants
Introduction
16.1 Fire mains are installed for the fire and rescue service to connect hoses for water. They may be
either of the following.
a. The ‘dry’ type, which are both of the following.
i. Normally kept empty.
ii. Supplied through a hose from a fire and rescue service pumping appliance.
b. The ‘wet’ type, which are both of the following.
i. Kept full of water.
ii. Supplied by pumps from tanks in the building.
There should be a facility to replenish a wet system from a pumping appliance in an emergency.
Provision of fire mains
16.2 Buildings with firefighting shafts should have fire mains in both of the following.
a. The firefighting shafts.
b. Where necessary, in protected escape stairs.
The criteria for providing firefighting shafts and fire mains are given in Section 17.
16.3 Buildings without firefighting shafts should be provided with fire mains where fire service vehicle
access is not provided in accordance with Table 15.1. In these cases, outlets from fire mains should
be located as described in paragraph 16.4, with a maximum hose distance of 45m from the fire main
outlet to the furthest point, measured on a route suitable for laying a hose. Stairs do not need to
be designed as firefighting shafts.
Design and construction of fire mains
16.4 If a firefighting shaft is provided, outlets from fire mains should be within the protected stairway or
protected lobby (see Diagram 17.1).
16.5 Guidance on the design and construction of fire mains is given in BS 9990.
16.6 Buildings with a storey more than 50m above fire service vehicle access level should be provided
with wet fire mains. In all other buildings where fire mains are provided, either wet or dry fire mains
are suitable.
16.7 Fire service vehicle access to fire mains should be provided as described in paragraphs 15.4 and 15.5.
116 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 129 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Provision of private hydrants
16.8 A building requires additional fire hydrants if both of the following apply.
a. It has a compartment with an area more than 280m2.
b. It is being erected more than 100m from an existing fire hydrant.
16.9 If additional hydrants are required, these should be provided in accordance with the following.
a. For buildings provided with fire mains – within 90m of dry fire main inlets.
b. For buildings not provided with fire mains – hydrants should be both of the following.
i. Within 90m of an entrance to the building.
ii. A maximum of 90m apart.
16.10 Each fire hydrant should be clearly indicated by a plate, fixed nearby in a conspicuous position, in
accordance with BS 3251.
16.11 Guidance on aspects of provision and siting of private fire hydrants is given in BS 9990.
Alternative supply of water
16.12 An alternative source of water supply should be provided where any of the following apply.
a. No piped water supply is available.
b. Pressure and flow in the water main are insufficient.
c. An alternative source of supply is proposed.
16.13 The alternative source of water supply should be one of the following, subject to consultation with
the local fire and rescue service.
a. A charged static water tank with a minimum capacity of 45,000 litres.
b. A spring, river, canal or pond that is capable of fulfilling both of the following conditions.
i. Providing or storing a minimum of 45,000 litres of water at all times.
ii. Providing access, space and a hardstanding for a pumping appliance.
c. Any other water supply that the local fire and rescue service considers appropriate.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 117
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 130 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Section 17: Access to buildings for firefighting
personnel
Introduction
17.1 Facilities for fire and rescue, such as firefighting lifts, firefighting stairs and firefighting lobbies, are
combined in protected firefighting shafts (Diagram 17.1). Section 8 gives guidance on the design and
construction of protected shafts.
See para 17.1
Any building
Fire main outlet
Firefghting Firefghting
lobby stairs
Firefghting
lift in
lift shaft
Minimum fre resistance REI 120 from accommodation side and
REI 60 from inside the shaft with E 60 S fre doors
a
Minimum fre resistance REI 60 from both sides with E 30 S fre doors
a
NOTES:
1. Outlets from a fre main should be located in the frefghting 3. This diagram is only to illustrate the basic components and is
lobby. not meant to represent the only acceptable layout. The
frefghting shaft should be constructed generally in
2. A frefghting lift is required if the building has a foor more accordance with Section 6 of BS 9999.
than 18m above, or more than 10m below, fre service vehicle
access level. 4. For the minimum fre resistance of lift doors see Table C1.
Diagram 17.1 Components of a firefighting shaft
118 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 131 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Provision of firefighting shafts
17.2 A building with a storey more than 18m above the fire and rescue service vehicle access level should
have one or more firefighting shafts containing a firefighting lift. The number and location of
firefighting shafts should comply with paragraphs 17.4 to 17.7. Firefighting shafts are not required to
serve a basement that is not large or deep enough to need one (see paragraph 17.3 and
Diagram 17.2).
17.3 A building with basement storeys should have firefighting shafts in accordance with the following.
a. There is a basement more than 10m below the fire and rescue service vehicle access level. The
firefighting shafts should contain firefighting lifts.
b. There are two or more basement storeys, each with a minimum area of 900m2. The firefighting
shafts do not need to include firefighting lifts.
The building’s height and size determine whether firefighting shafts also serve upper storeys.
17.4 Firefighting shafts should serve all storeys through which they pass.
17.5 A minimum of two firefighting shafts should be provided to buildings with a storey that has both of
the following.
a. A floor area of 900m2 or more.
b. A floor level 18m or more above the fire and rescue service vehicle access level.
17.6 At least two firefighting shafts, which do not need to include firefighting lifts, should be provided if
buildings meet all of the following.
a. They are in the ‘shop and commercial’, ‘assembly and recreation’ or ‘industrial’ purpose group
(purpose group 4, 5 or 6).
b. They have a storey area of 900m2 or more.
c. They have a storey height of 7.5m or more above fire and rescue service vehicle access level.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 119
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 132 ---

B5
Diagram 17.2 Provision of firefighting shafts
120 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
m81
>
m01
>
m5.7
>
O N L I N E V E R S I O N
See para 17.2
Buildings in which firefighting shafts should be provided,
showing which storeys need to be served
a. Any building b. Any building c. ‘Shop and d. Any building
commercial’,
The upper storeys The basement The basement
‘assembly and
in any building storeys in any storeys in any
recreation’ and
with a storey more building with a building with two
than 18m above basement more ‘industrial’ or more
fre service vehicle than 10m below buildings (purpose basements each
access level fre service vehicle groups 4, 5 and 6) exceeding 900m²
access level
The upper storeys in
purpose groups 4, 5 and 6
buildings with a storey of
900m2 or more which is
more than 7.5m above fre
service vehicle access level
Fire
service
vehicle
access
level
Two or more
basement storeys
each exceeding
900m²
NOTES:
1. Height excludes any top storey(s) consisting
Extent of Extent of
exclusively of plant rooms.
frefghting frefghting
stair lift
2. Firefghting shafts should serve all foors
through which they pass.
Location of firefighting shafts
17.7 Firefighting shafts and protected stairways should be positioned such that every part of each storey
more than 18m above the fire and rescue service vehicle access level complies with the maximum
distances given in paragraph 17.8. Distances should be measured from the fire main outlet on a route
suitable for laying a hose.
NOTE: If the internal layout is not known, the distance should be measured at two-thirds of the
direct distance.
17.8 In any building, the hose laying distance should meet all of the following conditions.
a. A maximum of 60m from the fire main outlet in a firefighting shaft (see Diagram 17.3).
b. Additionally, where sprinklers have not been provided in accordance with Appendix E, the
hose laying distance should be a maximum of 45m from a fire main outlet in a protected shaft
(although this does not imply that the protected shaft needs to be designed as a firefighting
shaft (see Diagram 17.3).
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 133 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
See para 17.8
With sprinklers
a. b.
F F F
60m
Without sprinklers
c.
45 m Floor plan within 60m hose laying distance of fre main outlet
Floor plan within 45m hose laying distance of fre main outlet
F Hose reach
F Firefghting shaft
H Fire main outlet in a protected shaft
60m
Additional hose coverage required
d. e.
H
F H F F
45m
H
NOTES:
1 . Hose laying distance should be measured from the fre main outlet along the route suitable for laying hose.
If this route is not known, the distance should be taken at two-thirds of the direct distance.
2 . The fre main outlet should be located according to paragraph 16.4.
Diagram 17.3 Location of firefighting shafts: hose laying distances
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 121
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 134 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Design and construction of firefighting shafts
17.9 Every firefighting stair and firefighting lift should be approached from the accommodation through a
firefighting lobby. Both the stair and lobby of the firefighting shaft should be provided with a means
of venting smoke and heat (see clause 27.1 of BS 9999).
Only services associated with the firefighting shaft, such as ventilation systems and lighting for the
firefighting shaft, should pass through or be contained within the firefighting shaft.
17.10 All firefighting shafts should have fire mains with outlet connections and valves at every storey.
17.11 A firefighting lift installation includes all of the following.
a. Lift car.
b. Lift well.
c. Lift machinery space.
d. Lift control system.
e. Lift communications system.
The lift shaft should be constructed in accordance with Section 6 of BS 9999.
Firefighting lift installations should conform to BS EN 81-72 and BS EN 81-20.
Rolling shutters in compartment walls
17.12 The fire and rescue service should be able to manually open and close rolling shutters without the
use of a ladder.
122 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 135 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Section 18: Venting of heat and smoke from
basements
Provision of smoke outlets
18.1 Heat and smoke from basement fires vented via stairs can inhibit access for firefighting personnel.
This may be reduced by providing smoke outlets, or smoke vents, which allow heat and smoke
to escape from the basement levels to the open air. They can also be used by the fire and rescue
service to let cooler air into the basements (Diagram 18.1).
18.2 Each basement space should have one or more smoke outlets.
Where this is not practicable (for example, the plan area is deep and the amount of external wall is
restricted by adjoining buildings), the perimeter basement spaces may be vented, with other spaces
vented indirectly by opening connecting doors. This does not apply for place of special fire hazard
(see paragraph 18.7).
If a basement is compartmented, each compartment should have one or more smoke outlets, rather
than indirect venting.
A basement storey or compartment containing rooms with doors or windows does not need smoke
outlets.
18.3 Smoke outlets connecting directly to the open air should be provided from every basement storey,
except for any basement storey that has both of the following.
a. A maximum floor area of 200m2.
b. A floor a maximum of 3m below the adjacent ground level.
18.4 Strong rooms do not need to be provided with smoke outlets.
Natural smoke outlets
18.5 Smoke outlets should be both of the following.
a. Sited at high level in either the ceiling or wall of the space they serve.
b. Evenly distributed around the perimeter, to discharge to the open air.
18.6 The combined clear cross-sectional area of all smoke outlets should be a minimum of 1/40 of the
area of the floor of the storey they serve.
18.7 Separate outlets should be provided from places of special fire hazard.
18.8 If the smoke outlet terminates at a point that is not readily accessible, it should be kept
unobstructed and covered only with a class A1 grille or louvre.
18.9 If the smoke outlet terminates in a readily accessible position, it may be covered by a panel,
stallboard or pavement light that can be broken out or opened. The position of covered smoke
outlets should be suitably indicated.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 123
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 136 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
18.10 Outlets should not be placed where they prevent the use of escape routes from the building.
Mechanical smoke extract
18.11 If basement storeys are fitted with a sprinkler system in accordance with Appendix E, a mechanical
smoke extraction system may be provided as an alternative to natural venting. Sprinklers do not
need to be installed on the other storeys unless needed for other reasons.
Car parks are not normally expected to be fitted with sprinklers (see Section 11 for guidance on
car parks).
18.12 The air extraction system should comply with all of the following.
a. It should give at least 10 air changes per hour.
b. It should be capable of handling gas temperatures of 300°C for not less than one hour.
c. It should do either of the following.
i. Be activated automatically if the sprinkler system activates.
ii. Be activated by an automatic fire detection system that conforms to BS 5839-1
(minimum L3 standard).
Further information on equipment for removing hot smoke is given in BS EN 12101-3.
See paras 18.1 and 18.13
Fire resisting construction of foor
see Section 8
Fire resisting construction achieving
the same rating as the foor of the
ground storey
External External
wall wall
Stallboard outlet Basement outlet
with grill with break-out or
or removable openable cover
Ground foor cover Ground foor
Basement Basement
Diagram 18.1 Fire resisting construction for smoke outlet shafts
124 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 137 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Construction of outlet ducts or shafts
18.13 Outlet ducts or shafts, including any bulkheads over them (see Diagram 18.1), should be enclosed
in construction of class A1 rating and fire resistance at least equal to that of the element through
which they pass.
18.14 Natural smoke outlet shafts should be separated from each other using construction of class A1
rating and fire resistance at least equal to that of the storeys they serve, where the shafts are either
of the following.
a. From different compartments of the same basement storey.
b. From different basement storeys.
Basement car parks
18.15 The provisions for ventilation of basement car parks in Section 11 satisfy the requirements for
venting smoke from any basement used as a car park.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 125
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 138 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
R38
Regulation 38: Fire safety information
This section deals with the following regulation of the Building Regulations 2010.
Fire safety information
38. (1) This regulation applies where building work—
(a) consists of or includes the erection or extension of a relevant building; or
(b) is carried out in connection with a relevant change of use of a building, and Part B of Schedule 1 imposes
a requirement in relation to the work.
(2) The person carrying out the work must give fire safety information to the responsible person no later than—
(a) where the building, proposed building or extension to which the building work relates is not occupied
during the building work, the date of completion of the work or the date of occupation of the building
or the extension, whichever is the earlier;
(b) in any other case, the date of completion of the work.
(2A) The responsible person must give the person carrying out the work a notice acknowledging receipt of the
fire safety information and confirming the information provided is sufficient to enable them to understand,
operate and maintain the building (and the fire safety systems in it) after the building work in question.
(2B) Subject to paragraph (2D), the person carrying out the work must give a notice to the relevant authority—
(a) confirming that they have given the fire safety information to the responsible person pursuant to
paragraph (2), and
(b) stating that they have received the notice from the responsible person pursuant to paragraph (2A)
or where they have not received the notice, stating the steps taken to obtain the notice from the
responsible person and the dates they were taken.
(2C) The notification under paragraph (2B) must be given no later than—
(a) where regulation 20 (provisions applicable to self-certification schemes) applies to the work, 30 days after
the date referred to in paragraph (2),
(b) in any other case, five days after the date referred to in paragraph (2).
(2D) Paragraphs (2B) and (2C) do not apply where regulation 20A (provisions applicable to third party certification
schemes) applies to the work and instead paragraphs (2E) to (2G) apply.
(2E) Where this paragraph applies, the person carrying out the work must notify the third party certifier
appointed under regulation 12(6)(c)—
(a) confirming that they have given the fire safety information to the responsible person pursuant to
paragraph (2), and
(b) stating that they have received the notice from the responsible person pursuant to paragraph (2A)
or where they have not received the notice, stating the steps taken to obtain the notice from the
responsible person and the dates they were taken.
(2F) The notification under paragraph (2E) must be given no later than seven days after the date referred to in
paragraph (2).
(2G) Within 30 days of receiving the notification under paragraph (2E) the third party certifier appointed under
regulation 12(6)(c) must notify the relevant authority confirming receipt of the notification under paragraph (2E).
(3) In this regulation—
(a) “fire safety information” means information relating to the design and construction of the building or
extension, and the services, fittings and equipment provided in or in connection with the building or
extension which will assist the responsible person to operate and maintain the building or extension with
reasonable safety;
(b) a “relevant building” is a building to which the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 applies, or will
apply after the completion of building work;
(c) a “relevant change of use” is a material change of use where, after the change of use takes place, the
Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 will apply, or continue to apply, to the building; and
(d) “ responsible person” has the meaning given by article 3 of the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005.
126 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 139 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
R38
Intention
The aim of this regulation is to ensure that the person responsible for the building has sufficient
information relating to fire safety to enable them to manage the building effectively. The aim of
regulation 38 will be achieved when the person responsible for the building has all the information
to enable them to do all of the following.
a. Understand and implement the fire safety strategy of the building.
b. Maintain any fire safety system provided in the building.
c. Carry out an effective fire risk assessment of the building.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 127
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 140 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
R38
Section 19: Fire safety information
19.1 For building work involving the erection or extension or a change of use of a relevant building (i.e.
a building to which the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 or the Building Safety Act 2022
applies, or will apply), fire safety information should be given to the relevant dutyholder (responsible
person or accountable person) at one of the following times, whichever is the earlier.
a. When the project is complete.
b. When the building or extension is first occupied.
19.2 This section is a guide to the information that should be provided and is not exhaustive. Guidance
is in terms of essential information and additional information for complex buildings; however, the
level of detail required should be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Essential information
19.3 The essential information provided should be sufficient to enable the relevant dutyholder to
understand, operate and maintain the building (including the fire safety systems in it). It should
make it clear how the fire safety arrangements of the building are intended to operate together.
In cases where a fire safety strategy has been prepared (e.g. as part of the design and construction
process for a building or building work), then this should be made available to the relevant
dutyholder.
19.4 Information on the location of fire protection measures may be sufficient. An as-built plan of the
building should be provided showing all of the following.
a. Escape routes – this should include exit capacity (i.e. the maximum allowable number of people
for each storey and for the building).
b. Fire resisting construction and location of fire-separating elements (including cavity barriers in
walk-in spaces).
c. Fire doorsets, fire doorsets fitted with a self-closing device and other doors relevant to the fire
safety strategy, such as doors equipped with relevant hardware.
d. Locations of fire detector heads (e.g. heat and smoke detectors), manual call points, fire alarm
control and indicating equipment, fire alarm sounders, fire safety signage, emergency lighting,
fire extinguishers, dry or wet fire mains and other firefighting equipment, and hydrants outside
the building.
e. Any sprinkler systems, including isolating valves and control equipment.
f. Any smoke control systems, or ventilation systems with a smoke control function, including
mode of operation and control systems.
128 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 141 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
R38
g. Any high risk areas (e.g. heating machinery).
h. Any power supplies or power generating installations.
i. The location of secure information boxes.
19.5 Details should be provided of all of the following.
a. Specifications of fire safety equipment provided, including routine maintenance schedules.
b. Any assumptions regarding the management of the building in the design of the fire safety
arrangements.
c. Any provision enabling the evacuation of disabled people, which can be used when designing
personal emergency evacuation plans.
d. Information for care homes should include the assessment for the number of beds in a
compartment, as this should set out the expected number of staff and level of assistance of
residents (see paragraph 2.39).
Additional information for complex buildings
19.6 A detailed record should be provided of both of the following.
a. The fire safety strategy.
b. Procedures for operating and maintaining any fire protection measures. This should include an
outline cause and effect matrix/strategy for the building.
Further guidance is available in clause 9 and Annex H of BS 9999.
19.7 The records should include details of the following.
a. The fire safety strategy, including all assumptions in the design of the fire safety systems (such
as fire load). Any risk assessments or risk analysis.
b. All assumptions in the design of the fire safety arrangements for the management of the
building.
c. All of the following.
i. Escape routes (including occupant load and capacity of escape routes).
ii. Any provision to enable the evacuation of disabled people (including the location and
mode of operation of evacuation lifts).
iii. Escape strategy (e.g. simultaneous or phased).
iv. Assembly points and/or muster stations.
d. All passive fire safety measures, including all of the following.
i. Compartmentation.
ii. Fire-separating elements.
iii. Fire resisting construction.
iv. Cavity barriers.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 129
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 142 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
R38
v. Fire doorsets, including fre doorsets ftted with a self-closing device and other doors
relevant to the fre safety strategy, such as doors equipped with relevant hardware (e.g.
electronic security locks).
vi. Fire dampers, fre and smoke dampers, and smoke control dampers.
vii. Fire shutters.
e. All of the following.
i. Fire detector heads (e.g. heat and smoke detectors).
ii. Manual call points.
iii. Fire alarm control and indicating equipment.
iv. Fire alarm sounders.
v. Emergency communications systems.
vi. CCTV.
vii. Fire safety signage.
viii. Emergency lighting.
ix. Fire extinguishers.
x. Dry or wet fre mains and other frefghting equipment.
xi. Other interior facilities for the fre and rescue service.
xii. Emergency control rooms.
xiii. Location of hydrants outside the building.
xiv. Other exterior facilities for the fre and rescue service.
xv. The location of secure information boxes.
f. All active fire safety measures, including both of the following.
i. Sprinkler system(s) design, including isolating valves and control equipment.
ii. Smoke control system(s) (or heating, ventilation and air conditioning system with a smoke
control function) design, including any air inlets, smoke outlets, mode of operation and
control systems.
g. Any high risk areas (e.g. heating machinery) and particular hazards.
h. Plans of the building as built, showing the locations of the above.
130 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 143 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
R38
i. Both of the following.
i. Specifcations of any fre safety equipment provided, including all of the following.
• Operational details.
• Operators’ manuals.
• Software.
• System zoning.
• Routine inspection, testing and maintenance schedules.
ii. Records of any acceptance or commissioning tests.
j. Any other details appropriate for the specific building.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 131
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 144 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A A
Appendix A: Key terms
NOTE: Except for the items marked * (which Basement storey A storey with a floor that, at some
are from the Building Regulations 2010), these point, is more than 1200mm below the highest level
definitions apply only to Approved Document B. of ground beside the outside walls. (However, see
Appendix B, paragraph B26c, for situations where
NOTE: The terms defined below are key terms
the storey is considered to be a basement only
used in this document only. Refer to BS 4422 for
because of a sloping site.)
further guidance on the definitions of common
terms used in the fire safety industry which are not Boundary The boundary of the land that belongs to
listed below. a building, or, where the land abuts a road, railway,
canal or river, the centre line of that road, railway,
Access room A room that the only escape route
canal or river.
from an inner room passes through.
*Building Any permanent or temporary building
Alternative escape routes Escape routes that are
but not any other kind of structure or erection. A
sufficiently separated by direction and space or by
reference to a building includes a reference to part
fire resisting construction to ensure that one is still
of a building.
available if the other is affected by fire.
Building control body A term that includes both
NOTE: A second stair, balcony or flat roof which
local authority building control and approved
enables a person to reach a place free from danger
inspectors.
from fire is considered an alternative escape route
for the purposes of a dwellinghouse. Cavity A space enclosed by elements of a building
(including a suspended ceiling) or contained within
Alternative exit One of two or more exits, each of
an element, but that is not a room, cupboard,
which is separate from the other.
circulation space, protected shaft, or space within a
Appliance ventilation duct A duct to deliver flue, chute, duct, pipe or conduit.
combustion air to a gas appliance.
Cavity barrier A construction within a cavity, other
Atrium (plural atria) A continuous space that passes than a smoke curtain, to perform either of the
through one or more structural floors within a following functions.
building, not necessarily vertically.
• Close a cavity to stop smoke or flame entering.
NOTE: Enclosed lift wells, enclosed escalator wells,
• Restrict the movement of smoke or flame
building services ducts and stairs are not classified
within a cavity.
as atria.
Ceiling Part of a building that encloses a room,
Automatic release mechanism A device that
protected shaft or circulation space and is exposed
normally holds a door open, but closes it
overhead.
automatically if any one of the following occurs.
NOTE: The soffit of a rooflight, but not the frame,
• Smoke is detected by an automatic device of a
is included as part of the surface of the ceiling. An
suitable nature and quality in a suitable location.
upstand below a rooflight is considered as a wall.
• A hand-operated switch, fitted in a suitable
Circulation space A space (including a protected
position, is operated.
stairway) mainly used as a means of access
• The electricity supply to the device, apparatus between a room and an exit from the building or
or switch fails. compartment.
• The fire alarm system, if any, is operated.
132 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 145 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A A
Common balcony A walkway, open to the air on Element of structure Any of the following.
one or more sides, that forms part of the escape
• A member that forms part of the structural
route from more than one flat.
frame of a building, or any other beam or
Common stair An escape stair that serves more column.
than one flat.
• A loadbearing wall or loadbearing part of a wall.
Compartment (fire) A building or part of a building,
• A floor.
comprising one or more rooms, spaces or storeys,
that is constructed to prevent the spread of fire • A gallery (but not a loading gallery, fly
to or from another part of the same building or an gallery, stage grid, lighting bridge, or any
adjoining building. gallery provided for similar purposes or for
maintenance and repair).
NOTE: A roof space above the top storey of a
compartment is included in that compartment. (See • An external wall.
also ‘Separated part’.)
• A compartment wall (including a wall that is
Compartment wall or floor A fire resisting wall common to two or more buildings).
or floor to separate one fire compartment from
NOTE: However, see the guidance to requirement
another. B3, paragraph 7.3, for a list of structures that are not
NOTE: Provisions relating to construction are given considered to be elements of structure.
in Section 8.
Emergency lighting Lighting for use when the
Corridor access A design of a building containing power supply to the normal lighting fails.
flats, in which each flat is approached via a common
Escape lighting The part of the emergency lighting
horizontal internal access or circulation space, which
that is provided to ensure that the escape route is
may include a common entrance hall.
illuminated at all material times.
Curtain Part of a solar shading device which is set
Escape route The route along which people can
in motion by the operating system and fulfils the
escape from any point in a building to a final exit.
purpose of a blind, awning or shutter.
Evacuation lift A lift that may be used to evacuate
Dead end An area from which escape is possible in
people in a fire.
one direction only.
2026 amendment – effective
Direct distance The shortest distance from any
from 30 September 2026
point within the floor area to the nearest storey
exit, measured within the external enclosures of the Evacuation lift lobby An area protected from fire
building, and ignoring walls, partitions and fittings and smoke ingress by fire resisting construction and
other than the enclosing walls and partitions to smoke control measures, providing direct access
protected stairways. to an evacuation lift, where a person can wait for a
lift service in relative safety while an evacuation is
*Dwelling Includes a dwellinghouse and a flat.
underway.
NOTE: A dwelling is a unit where one or more
Evacuation shaft A protected shaft containing a
people live (whether or not as a sole or main
protected stairway, an evacuation lift (together
residence) in either of the following situations.
with its machine room) and evacuation lift lobbies.
• A single person or people living together as a
family. Exit passageway A protected passageway that
connects a protected stairway to a final exit.
• A maximum of six people living together as
a single household, including where care is NOTE: Exit passageways should be protected to the
provided for residents. same standard as the stairway they serve.
*Dwellinghouse Does not include a flat or a
building containing a flat.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 133
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 146 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A
*External wall The external wall of a building leaves, essential hardware, edge seals and glazing,
includes all of the following. and any integral side panels or fanlight panels in
an associated door screen.
• Anything located within any space forming
part of the wall. Firefighting lift A lift with additional protection
and with controls that enable it to be used by the
• Any decoration or other finish applied to any
fire and rescue service when fighting a fire. (See
external (but not internal) surface forming part
Section 17.)
of the wall.
Firefighting lobby A protected lobby that
• Any windows and doors in the wall.
provides access from a firefighting stair to the
• Any part of a roof pitched at an angle of more
accommodation area and to any associated
than 70 degrees to the horizontal if that part of
firefighting lift.
the roof adjoins a space within the building to
Firefighting shaft A protected enclosure that
which persons have access, but not access only
contains a firefighting stair, firefighting lobbies
for the purpose of carrying out repairs or main-
and, if provided, a firefighting lift together with its
tenance.
machine room.
Final exit The end of an escape route from a
Firefighting stair A protected stairway that
building that gives direct access to a street,
connects to the accommodation area through only
passageway, walkway or open space, and is sited to
a firefighting lobby.
ensure that people rapidly disperse away from the
building so that they are no longer in danger from Fire resisting (Fire resistance) The ability of a
fire and/or smoke. component or a building to satisfy, for a stated
period of time, some or all of the appropriate
NOTE: Windows are not acceptable as final exits.
criteria given in the relevant standard.
Fire alarm system Combination of components for
Fire-separating element A compartment wall,
giving an audible and/or other perceptible warning
compartment floor, cavity barrier and construction
of fire.
that encloses a protected escape route and/or a
Fire damper A mechanical or intumescent device
place of special fire hazard.
within a duct or ventilation opening that operates
Fire-stop (Fire-stopping) A seal provided to close
automatically and is designed to resist the spread
an imperfection of fit or design tolerance between
of fire.
elements or components, to restrict the spread of
Fire and smoke damper A fire damper which, in
fire and smoke.
addition to the performance of the fire damper,
*Flat A flat is a separate and self-contained
resists the spread of smoke.
premises constructed or adapted for use for
Fire doorset A door or shutter which, together
residential purposes and forming part of a building
with its frame and furniture as installed in a
from some other part of which it is divided
building, is intended (when closed) to resist
horizontally.
the spread of fire and/or gaseous products of
Gallery A floor or balcony that does not extend
combustion and meets specified performance
across the full extent of a building’s footprint and
criteria to those ends.
is open to the floor below.
NOTE: A fire doorset may have one or more
Habitable room A room used, or intended to
leaves. The term includes a cover or other form of
be used, for people to live in (including, for the
protection to an opening in a fire resisting wall or
purposes of Approved Document B Volumes 1 and
floor, or in a structure that surrounds a protected
2, a kitchen, but not a bathroom).
shaft. A fire doorset is a complete door assembly,
assembled on site or delivered as a completed Height (of a building or storey for the purposes of
assembly, consisting of the door frame, leaf or Approved Document B Volumes 1 and 2)
134 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 147 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A
• Height of a building is measured as shown in Pipe Includes pipe fittings and accessories. The
Appendix D, Diagram D4. definition of ‘pipe’ excludes a flue pipe and a
pipe used for ventilating purposes, other than
• Height of the floor of the top storey above
a ventilating pipe for an above-ground drainage
ground level is measured as shown in Appendix
system.
D, Diagram D6.
Place of special fire hazard A room such as any of
Inner room Room from which escape is possible
the following.
only by passing through another room (the access
room). • Oil-filled transformer room.
• Switch gear room.
2026 amendment – effective
from 30 September 2026 • Boiler room.
Interlocked stair Two interlocking protected • Storage space for fuel or other highly
stairways providing two separate paths of egress flammable substance(s).
within one protected shaft or separated protected
• Room that houses a fixed internal combustion
shafts. These are also sometimes referred to as
engine.
scissor stairs or stacked stairs.
Platform floor (also called an access or raised floor) A
Live/work unit A flat that is a workplace for floor that is supported by a structural floor, but with
people who live there, its occupants, and for an intervening cavity to house services.
people who do not live on the premises.
Protected circuit An electrical circuit that is
Means of escape Structural means that provide protected against fire.
one or more safe routes for people to go, during
Protected corridor/lobby A corridor or lobby that
a fire, from any point in the building to a place of
is adequately protected from fire in adjoining areas
safety.
by fire resisting construction.
Measurement
Protected entrance hall/landing A circulation
• Width of a doorway, cubic capacity, area, area, consisting of a hall or space in a flat, that is
height of a building and number of storeys are enclosed with fire resisting construction other than
measured as shown in Appendix D, Diagrams D1 an external wall of a building.
to D6.
Protected shaft A shaft that enables people, air
• Occupant number, travel distance, escape or objects to pass from one compartment to
route and stairs are measured as described in another, and which is enclosed with fire resisting
Appendix D, paragraphs D1 to D4. construction.
Notional boundary A boundary presumed to exist Protected stairway A stair that leads to a final
between two buildings on the same site. exit to a place of safety and that is adequately
enclosed with fire resisting construction. Included
Open spatial planning The internal arrangement of
in the definition is any exit passageway between
a building in which more than one storey or level is
the foot of the stair and the final exit.
contained in one undivided volume, e.g. split-level
floors. For the purposes of this document there is Purpose group A classification of a building
a distinction between open spatial planning and an according to the purpose to which it is intended
atrium space. to be put. (See Table 0.1.)
Perimeter (of a building) The maximum aggregate Relevant boundary The boundary or notional
plan perimeter, found by vertical projection onto a boundary that one side of the building faces and/
horizontal plane. (See Section 15.) or coincides with, and that is parallel or at an angle
of a maximum of 80 degrees to that side of the
building.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 135
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 148 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A
Rooflight A dome light, lantern light, skylight, *Specified attachment Includes any of the
ridge light, glazed barrel vault or other element to following.
admit daylight through a roof.
• A balcony attached to an external wall.
Room An enclosed space within a building that is
• A device for reducing heat gain within a
not used solely as a circulation space. The term
building by deflecting sunlight which is
includes not only conventional rooms, but also
attached to an external wall.
cupboards that are not fittings and large spaces
such as warehouses and auditoria. The term does • A solar panel attached to an external wall.
not include cavities such as ducts, ceiling cavities Storey Includes any of the following.
and roof spaces.
• Any gallery in an assembly building (purpose
School A place of education for children between group 5).
2 and 19 years old. The term includes nursery
• Any gallery in any other type of building if its
schools, primary schools and secondary schools as
area is more than half that of the space into
defined in the Education Act 1996.
which it projects.
Self-closing device A device that closes a door,
• A roof, unless it is accessible only for
when open at any angle, against a door frame.
maintenance and repair.
NOTE: If the door is in a cavity barrier, rising butt
NOTE: The building is regarded as a multi-storey
hinges (which are different from the self-closing
building if both of the following apply.
device mentioned above) are acceptable.
• There is more than one gallery.
Separated part (of a building) Part of a building
that is separated from another part of the same • The total aggregate area of all the galleries in
building by a compartment wall. The wall runs the one space is more than half the floor area of
full height of the part and is in one vertical plane. that space.
(See Appendix D, Diagram D5.)
Effective until 29 September 2026 –
Sheltered housing Includes two or more dwellings
see 2026 amendment, below
in the same building or on adjacent sites, designed
Storey exit A final exit, or a doorway that gives
and constructed as residential accommodation for
direct access into a protected stairway, firefighting
vulnerable or elderly people who receive, or will
lobby or external escape route.
receive, a support service.
NOTE: If an institutional building is planned to
Single storey building A building that consists of a
enable progressive horizontal evacuation, a door in
ground storey only. Basements are not counted as
a compartment wall is considered a storey exit for
storeys in a building (see Appendix D). A separated
the purposes of requirement B1.
part that consists of a ground storey only, with a
roof to which access is only provided for repair
or maintenance, may be treated as a single storey 2026 amendment – effective
building. from 30 September 2026
Site (of a building) The land occupied by the Storey exit A final exit, or a doorway that gives
building, up to the boundaries with land in other direct access into a protected stairway, evacuation
ownership. lift lobby within an evacuation shaft, firefighting
lobby or external escape route.
*Solar shading device A device attached to the
external surface of an external wall for reducing NOTE: If an institutional building is planned to
heat gain within a building by shading or enable progressive horizontal evacuation, a door in
deflecting sunlight. a compartment wall is considered a storey exit for
the purposes of requirement B1.
136 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 149 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A A
Suspended ceiling (fire-protecting) A ceiling Unprotected area (in relation to a side or external
suspended below a floor that adds to the fire wall of a building) All of the following are classed
resistance of the floor. as unprotected areas.
Thermoplastic material Any synthetic polymeric • Any part of the external wall that has less than
material that has a softening point below 200°C if the relevant fire resistance set out in Section 13.
tested to BS EN ISO 306 Method A120. Specimens
• Any part of the external wall constructed of
for this test may be fabricated from the original
material more than 1mm thick if that material
polymer where the thickness of material of the
does not have a class B-s3, d2 rating or better,
end product is less than 2.5mm.
which is attached or applied, whether for cladding
Travel distance (unless otherwise specified, e.g. or any other purpose.
as in the case of flats) The distance that a person
• Windows, doors or other openings. This does not
would travel from any point within the floor area
include windows that are designed and glazed to
to the nearest storey exit, determined by the
give the necessary level of fire resistance and that
layout of walls, partitions and fittings.
are not openable.
NOTE: Recessed car parking areas as shown in
Diagram A1 should not be regarded as unprotected
areas.
NOTE:
The parking area should be
both of the following:
a. Open fronted.
b. Separated from the remainder of
the building by a compartment
wall(s) and foor(s) having not less
than the period of fre resistance
specifed in Table B2 in Appendix B.
Diagram A1 Recessed car parking areas
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 137
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 150 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Appendix B: Performance of materials,
products and structures
Introduction
B1 Much of the guidance in this document is given in terms of performance classifications in relation
to British or European Standards. In such cases, it will be necessary to demonstrate that a system
or product can meet the relevant performance classification. This will be achieved if the system or
product complies with one of the following.
a. They should be in accordance with a specification or design that has been shown by specific
test(s) to be capable of meeting that performance classification.
b. They should have been designed by using relevant design standards in order to meet that
performance classification.
c. They should have been assessed by applying relevant test evidence, in lieu of carrying out a
specific test, as being capable of meeting that performance classification.
NOTE: Some products are subject to Classification Without Further Testing (CWFT). For the
purposes of this approved document, such products can be considered to have been shown to be
capable of meeting a performance specification as per paragraph B1a.
B2 Any test evidence used to demonstrate the fire performance classification of a product or system
should be carefully checked to ensure that it is applicable to the intended use. Small differences in
detail, such as fixing method, joints, dimensions, the introduction of insulation materials and air gaps
(ventilated or not), might significantly affect the performance and should be tested or assessed in
accordance with paragraph B1.
B3 Assessments should not be regarded as a way to avoid a test where one is necessary. Assessments
should only be carried out where sufficient relevant test evidence is available. Relevant test
evidence is unlikely to be provided by test standards which have different classification criteria.
B4 Where it is proposed to assess the classification of a product or system in lieu of carrying out a
specific test (as in paragraph B1c), this should be done in accordance with the relevant standard for
extended application for the test in question and should include details of the test evidence that
has been used to support the assessment.
For performance classifications where there is no specific standard for extended application,
assessment reports should be produced in accordance with the principles of BS EN 15725 and
should include details of the test evidence that has been used to support the assessment. In
cases where the end use application is not covered by the extended application standard and
an assessment is the only other suitable approach, then further information on best practice is
provided in the Passive Fire Protection Forum’s Guide to Undertaking Technical Assessments of the
Fire Performance of Construction Products Based on Fire Test Evidence. The same principle should
be followed for assessments as described in paragraph B2.
NOTE: Regulation 7(2) limits components used in or on the external walls of certain buildings to
materials achieving class A2-s1, d0 or class A1 (see Section 12). Assessments cannot be used to
demonstrate compliance with this requirement.
138 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 151 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
B5 Tests and assessments should be carried out by organisations with the necessary expertise. For
example, organisations listed as ‘notified bodies’ in accordance with the European Construction
Products Regulation or laboratories accredited by the United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS)
for the relevant test standard can be assumed to have the necessary expertise.
NOTE: Standard fire tests do not directly measure fire hazard. They measure or assess the response
of a material or system to exposure to one or more aspects of fire conditions. Performance in fire
tests is only one of a number of factors that should be taken into account.
Reaction to fire
B6 Reaction to fire relates to the degree to which a product will contribute, by its own decomposition,
to a fire under specified conditions. Products, other than floorings, are classified as A1, A2, B, C, D,
E or F (with class A1 being the highest performance and F being the lowest) in accordance with BS
EN 13501-1. Class F is assigned when a product fails to attain class E. Untested products cannot be
classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-1.
Materials covered by the Classification Without Further Testing (CWFT) process can be found by
accessing the European Commission’s website https://eur-lex.europa.eu/.
B7 The classes of reaction to fire performance of A2, B, C, D and E are accompanied by additional
classifications related to the production of smoke (s1, s2, s3), with s1 indicating the lowest
production, and/or flaming droplets/particles (d0, d1, d2), with d0 indicating the lowest production.
NOTE: When a classification includes s3, d2 this means that there is no limit set for smoke
production and/or flaming droplets/particles.
B8 To reduce the testing burden on manufacturers, BS EN 13238 defines a number of standard
substrates that produce test results representative of different end use applications. The
classification for reaction to fire achieved during testing is only valid when the product is used
within this direct field of application, i.e. when the product is fixed to a substrate of that class in
its end use. The standard substrate selected for testing should take account of the intended end
use applications (field of application) of the product and represent end use substrates that have a
density of a minimum of 75% of the standard substrate’s nominal density.
B9 Standard substrates include gypsum plasterboard (BS EN 520) with a density of 700+/-100kg/m3,
calcium silicate board (BS EN 14306) 870+/-50kg/m3 and fibre-cement board 1800+/-200kg/m3.
NOTE: Standard calcium silicate board is not representative of gypsum plasterboard end use (due to
the paper layer), but would be representative of most gypsum plasters (with densities of more than
650kg/m3).
NOTE: Classifications based on tests using a plasterboard substrate would also be acceptable for
products bonded to a gypsum plaster end use substrate.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 139
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 152 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Thermoplastic materials
B10 Thermoplastic material is any synthetic polymeric material that has a softening point below 200°C
if tested to BS EN ISO 306 Method A120. Products formed from these materials cannot always be
classified in the normal way. In those circumstances the following approach can be followed.
B11 Thermoplastic materials used for window glazing, rooflights and lighting diffusers within suspended
ceilings do not need to meet the criteria within paragraph B18 onwards, if the guidance to
requirements B2 and B4 is followed.
B12 For the purposes of requirements B2 and B4, thermoplastic materials should be classified as TP(a)
rigid, TP(a) flexible or TP(b), as follows:
a. TP(a) rigid
i. rigid solid uPVC sheet
ii. solid (as distinct from double- or multi-skinned) polycarbonate sheet a minimum of 3mm
thick
iii. any other rigid thermoplastic product, a specimen of which (at the thickness of the
product as put on the market), when tested to BS 2782-0 Method 508A, performs so that
both:
• the test flame extinguishes before the first mark
• the duration of flaming or afterglow does not exceed 5 seconds following removal of
the burner.
b. TP(a) flexible
Flexible products a maximum of 1mm thick that comply with the Type C requirements of BS
5867-2 when tested to BS 5438 Test 2 with the flame applied to the surface of the specimens
for 5, 15, 20 and 30 seconds respectively, but excluding the cleansing procedure; and
c. TP(b)
i. rigid solid polycarbonate sheet products a maximum of 3mm thick, or multi-skinned
polycarbonate sheet products that do not qualify as TP(a) by test
ii. other products which, when a specimen of the material between 1.5 and 3mm thick is
tested in accordance with BS 2782-0 Method 508A, have a maximum rate of burning of
50mm/minute.
NOTE: If it is not possible to cut or machine a 3mm thick specimen from the product, then a
3mm test specimen can be moulded from the same material as that used to manufacture the
product.
B13 A thermoplastic material alone when used as a lining to a wall or ceiling cannot be assumed to
protect a substrate. The surface rating of both thermoplastic material and substrate must therefore
meet the required classification.
If, however, the thermoplastic material is fully bonded to a non-thermoplastic substrate, then only
the surface rating of the composite needs to meet the required classification.
140 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 153 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Roofs
B14 Performance of the resistance of roofs to external fire exposure is measured in terms of penetration
through the roof construction and the spread of flame over its surface.
B15 Roof constructions are classified within the European system as B (t4), C (t4), D (t4), E (t4)
ROOF ROOF ROOF ROOF
or F (t4) in accordance with BS EN 13501-5. B (t4) indicates the highest performance and
ROOF ROOF
F (t4) the lowest.
ROOF
B16 BS EN 13501-5 refers to four separate roof tests. The suffix (t4) used in paragraph B15 indicates that
Test 4 is to be used for the purposes of this approved document.
B17 This document uses the European classification system for roof covering set out in BS EN
13501-5; however, there may be some products or systems whose performance will need to be
assessed based on the recommendations of paragraphs B1 to B5 as being capable of meeting that
performance classification.
Fire resistance
B18 Common to all of the provisions of Part B of the Building Regulations is the property of fire
resistance. Fire resistance is a measure of one or more of the following.
a. Resistance to collapse (loadbearing capacity), which applies to loadbearing elements only,
denoted R in the European classification of the resistance to fire performance.
b. Resistance to fire penetration (integrity), denoted E in the European classification of the
resistance to fire performance.
c. Resistance to the transfer of excessive heat (insulation), denoted I in the European classification
of the resistance to fire performance.
B19 The standards of fire resistance necessary for a particular building are based on assumptions about
the severity of fires and the consequences should an element fail. Fire severity is estimated in very
broad terms from the use of the building (its purpose group), on the assumption that the building
contents (which constitute the fire load) are similar for buildings with the same use.
B20 Because the use of buildings may change, a precise estimate of fire severity based on the fire load
due to a particular use may be misleading. Therefore if a fire engineering approach of this kind is
adopted, the likelihood that the fire load may change in the future needs to be considered.
B21 Performance in terms of the fire resistance to be achieved by elements of structure, doors and
other forms of construction is classified in accordance with one of the following.
a. BS EN 13501-2.
b. BS EN 13501-3.
c. BS EN 13501-4.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 141
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 154 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
B22 Fire resistance is measured in minutes. This relates to time elapsed in a standard test and should not
be confused with real time.
B23 The fire resistance necessary for different circumstances is set out in the following tables.
a. Table B1 gives the specific requirements for each element of structure.
b. Table B2 sets out the minimum periods of fire resistance for elements of structure.
c. Table B3 sets out limitations on the use of uninsulated fire resisting glazed elements.
B24 This document uses the European classification system for fire resistance set out in BS EN 13501-2
to 4; however, there may be some products lawfully on the market using the classifcation system
set out in previous editions. In those situations the alternative classifcations given in Table B1 can be
used.
Table B1 Specific provisions of the test for fire resistance of elements of structure, etc.
Part of building Minimum Alternative minimum provisions when tested to the Type of
provisions when relevant part of BS 476(2) (minutes) exposure
tested to the
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
relevant European
capacity(3)
standard
(minutes)(1)
1. Structural frame, R see Table B2 See Table B2 Not applicable Not applicable Exposed faces
beam or column.
2. Loadbearing wall (for R see Table B2 See Table B2 Not applicable Not applicable Each side
a wall which is also separately
described in any of
the following items,
the more onerous
guidance should be
applied).
3. Floors(4)
a. between a shop and REI 60 or 60 min or 60 min or 60 min or From
flat above see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2 underside(5)
(whichever is (whichever is (whichever is (whichever is
greater) greater) greater) greater)
b. in upper storey R 30 and EI 15 30 min 15 min 15 min From
of two storey underside(5)
dwellinghouse (but
not over garage or
basement)
c. any other floor REI see Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 From
– including underside(5)
compartment floors.
142 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 155 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Table B1 Continued
Part of building Minimum Alternative minimum provisions when tested to the Type of
provisions when relevant part of BS 476(2) (minutes) exposure
tested to the
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
relevant European
capacity(3)
standard
(minutes)(1)
4. Roofs
a. any part forming an REI 30 30 min 30 min 30 min From
escape route underside(5)
b. any roof that REI see Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 From
performs the underside(5)
function of a floor.
5. External walls
a. any part a maximum REI see Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 Each side
of 1000mm from any separately
point on the relevant
boundary(6)
b. any part a minimum RE see Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 15 min From inside
of 1000mm from the and I 15 the building
relevant boundary(6)
c. any part beside an RE 30 30 min 30 min No From inside
external escape route provision(7) (8) the building
(Section 2 Diagram
2.7 of Approved
Document B Volume
1 and Section 3,
Diagram 3.4).
6. Compartment walls
Separating either:
a. a flat from any other REI 60 or 60 min or 60 min or 60 min or Each side
part of the building see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2 separately
(see paragraph 7.1 of (whichever is less) (whichever is (whichever is (whichever is
Approved Document less) less) less)
B Volume 1)
b. occupancies. REI 60 or 60 min or 60 min or 60 min or Each side
see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2 separately
(whichever is less) (whichever is (whichever is (whichever is
less) less) less)
7. Compartment walls REI see Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 Each side
(other than in item 6 separately
or item 10).
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 143
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 156 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Table B1 Continued
Part of building Minimum Alternative minimum provisions when tested to the Type of
provisions when relevant part of BS 476(2) (minutes) exposure
tested to the
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
relevant European
capacity(3)
standard
(minutes)(1)
8. Protected shafts
Excluding any
firefighting shaft:
a. any glazing described E 30 Not applicable 30 min No provision(8) Each side
in Section 8 diagram separately
8.4
b. any other part REI 30 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
between the shaft separately
and a protected
lobby/corridor
described in Section
8 diagram 8.4
c. any part not REI see Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 Each side
described in (a) or (b) separately
above.
9. Enclosure (that does
not form part of a
compartment wall or
a protected shaft)
to a:
a. protected stairway REI 30(8) 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
separately
b. lift shaft. REI 30 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
separately
10. Wall or floor REI 30(8) 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) From garage
separating an side
attached or integral
garage from a
dwellinghouse
11. Fire resisting REI 30(8) 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
construction in separately
dwellinghouses not
described elsewhere
12. Firefighting shafts REI 120 120 min 120 min 120 min From side
remote from
shaft
a. construction that REI 60 60 min 60 min 60 min From shaft
separates firefighting side
shaft from rest of
building
b. construction that REI 60 60 min 60 min 60 min Each side
separates firefighting separately
stair, firefighting lift
shaft and firefighting
lobby.
144 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 157 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Table B1 Continued
Part of building Minimum Alternative minimum provisions when tested to the Type of
provisions when relevant part of BS 476(2) (minutes) exposure
tested to the
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
relevant European
capacity(3)
standard
(minutes)(1)
13. Enclosure (that is not
a compartment wall
or described in item
8) to a:
a. protected lobby REI 30(8) 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
separately
b. protected corridor. REI 30(8) 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
separately
14. Sub-division of a REI 30(8) 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
corridor separately
15. Fire resisting
construction
a. construction that REI 30 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
encloses places of separately
special fire hazard
b. construction REI 30 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
between store rooms separately
and sales area in
shops
c. fire resisting REI 30 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
sub-division separately
d. construction that REI 30 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
encloses bedrooms separately
and ancillary
accommodation in
care homes.
16. Enclosure in a flat REI 30(8) 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
to a protected separately
entrance hall, or to a
protected landing.
17. Cavity barrier E 30 and I 15 Not applicable 30 min 15 min Each side
separately
18. Ceiling see paragraph EI 30 Not applicable 30 min 30 min From
2.5, Diagram 2.3 of underside
Approved Document
B Volume 1 and
paragraph 9.5 and
Diagram 9.3.
19. Duct described in E 30 Not applicable 30 min No provision From outside
paragraph 9.17e.
20. Casing around a E 30 Not applicable 30 min No provision From outside
drainage system
described in Diagram
9.1 of Approved
Document B
Volume 1.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 145
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 158 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Table B1 Continued
Part of building Minimum Alternative minimum provisions when tested to the Type of
provisions when relevant part of BS 476(2) (minutes) exposure
tested to the
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
relevant European
capacity(3)
standard
(minutes)(1)
21. Flue walls described EI half the Not applicable Half the period Half the period From outside
in Diagram 10.4. period given in given in Table given in Table
Table B2 for the B2 for the B2 for the
compartment compartment compartment
wall/floor wall/floor wall/floor
22. Construction EI 30 Not applicable 30 min 30 min From
described in note (a) underside
to paragraph 12.9 of
Approved Document
B Volume 1.
23. Fire doorsets See Table C1 See Table C1 See
Appendix C
NOTES:
1. BS EN 13501-2 Classification using data from fire resistance tests, excluding ventilation services. BS EN 13501-3
Classification using data from fire resistance tests on products and elements used in building service installations:
fire resisting ducts and fire dampers. BS EN 13501-4 Classification using data from fire resistance tests on
components of smoke control systems.
In the European classification:
‘R’ is the resistance to fire in terms of loadbearing capacity.
‘E’ is the resistance to fire in terms of integrity.
‘I’ is the resistance to fire in terms of insulation.
The national classifications do not automatically equate with the alternative classifications in the European column,
therefore products cannot typically assume a European class unless they have been tested accordingly.
2. BS 476-20 for general principles, BS 476-21 for loadbearing elements, BS 476-22 for non-loadbearing elements,
BS 476-23 for fire-protecting suspended ceilings and BS 476-24 for ventilation ducts.
3. Applies to loadbearing elements only (see paragraph B19).
4. Guidance on increasing the fire resistance of existing timber floors is given in BRE Digest 208.
5. Only if a suspended ceiling meets the appropriate provisions should it be relied on to add to the fire resistance of
the floor.
6. Such walls may contain areas that do not need to be fire resisting (unprotected areas). See Section 13.
7. Unless needed as part of a wall in item 5a or 5b.
8. Except for any limitations on uninsulated glazed elements given in Table B3.
146 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 159 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Table B2 Minimum periods of fire resistance
Purpose group of building Minimum periods of fire resistance(1) (minutes) in a:
Basement storey* Ground or upper storey
including floor over
Depth (m) of the lowest Height (m) of top floor above ground, in a building or
basement separated part of a building
More than Up to 10 Up to 5 Up to 11 Up to 18 Up to 30 More than
10 30
1. Residential:
a. Block of flats
– without sprinkler 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min+§ Not Not Not
system permitted(2) permitted(2) permitted(2)
– with sprinkler system(3) 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min+§ 60 min+§ 90 min+ 120 min+
b. and c. Dwellinghouse Not 30 min*† 30 min† 60 min(5) 60 min(5) Not Not
applicable(4) applicable(4) applicable(4)
2. Residential
a. Institutional 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
b. Other residential 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
3. Office:
– without sprinkler 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 60 min 60 min 30 min† 30 min† 30 min† 60 min 120 min‡
4. Shop and commercial:
– without sprinkler 90 min 60 min 60 min 60 min 60 min 90 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 60 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 60 min 120 min‡
5. Assembly and
recreation:
– without sprinkler 90 min 60 min 60 min 60 min 60 min 90 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 60 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 60 min 120 min‡
6. Industrial:
– without sprinkler 120 min 90 min 60 min 90 min 90 min 120 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
7. Storage and other non-
residential:
a. any building or part not
described elsewhere:
– without sprinkler 120 min 90 min 60 min 90 min 90 min 120 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 147
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 160 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Table B2 Continued
Purpose group of building Minimum periods of fire resistance(1) (minutes) in a:
Basement storey* Ground or upper storey
including floor over
Depth (m) of the lowest Height (m) of top floor above ground, in a building or
basement separated part of a building
More than Up to 10 Up to 5 Up to 11 Up to 18 Up to 30 More than
10 30
b. car park for light vehicles:
i. open sided car park(7) Not Not 15 min†# 15 min†#(8) 15 min†#(8) 15 min†#(8) 60 min
applicable applicable
ii. any other car park 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
NOTES:
For single storey buildings, the periods under the heading ‘Up to 5’ apply. If single storey buildings have basements,
for the basement storeys the period appropriate to their depth applies.
* For the floor over a basement or, if there is more than one basement, the floor over the topmost basement, the
higher of the period for the basement storey and the period for the ground or upper storey applies.
† For compartment walls that separate buildings, the period is increased to a minimum of 60 minutes.
+ For any floor that does not contribute to the support of the building within a flat of more than one storey, the
period is reduced to 30 minutes.
§ For flat conversions, refer to paragraphs 6.5 to 6.7 of Approved Document B Volume 1 regarding the acceptability
of 30 minutes.
‡ For elements that do not form part of the structural frame, the period is reduced to 90 minutes.
# For elements that protect the means of escape, the period is increased to 30 minutes.
1. Refer to note 1, Table B1 for the specific provisions of test.
2. Blocks of flats with a top storey more than 11m above ground level (see Diagram D6) should be fitted with a
sprinkler system in accordance with Appendix E.
NOTE: Sprinklers should be provided within the individual flats, they do not need to be provided in the common
areas such as stairs, corridors or landings when these areas are fire sterile.
3. ‘With sprinkler system’ means that the building is fitted throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Appendix E.
4. Very large (with a top storey more than 18m above ground level or with a 10m deep basement) or unusual
dwellinghouses are outside the scope of the guidance provided with regard to dwellinghouses.
5. A minimum of 30 minutes in the case of three storey dwellinghouses, increased to 60 minutes minimum for
compartment walls separating buildings.
6. Buildings within the ‘office’, ‘shop and commercial’, ‘assembly and recreation’, ‘industrial’ and ‘storage and other
non-residential’ (except car parks for light vehicles) purpose groups (purpose groups 3 to 7(a)) require sprinklers
where there is a top storey more than 30m above ground level.
7. The car park should comply with the relevant provisions in the guidance on requirement B3, Section 11.
8. For the purposes of meeting the Building Regulations, the following types of steel elements are deemed to have
satisfied the minimum period of fire resistance of 15 minutes when tested to the European test method.
i. Beams supporting concrete floors, maximum Hp/A=230m-1 operating under full design load.
ii. Free-standing columns, maximum Hp/A=180m-1 operating under full design load.
iii. Wind bracing and struts, maximum Hp/A=210m-1 operating under full design load.
Guidance is also available in BS EN 1993-1-2.
148 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 161 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Application of the fire resistance standards in Table B2
B25 The following guidance should be used when applying the fire resistance standards in Table B2.
a. If one element of structure supports or carries or gives stability to another, the fire resistance
of the supporting element should be no less than the minimum period of fire resistance for the
other element (whether that other element is loadbearing or not). In some circumstances, it may
be reasonable to vary this principle, for example:
i. if the supporting structure is in the open air and is not likely to be affected by the fire in
the building
ii. if the supporting structure is in a different compartment, with a fire-separating element
(that has the higher standard of fire resistance) between the supporting and the separated
structure
iii. if a plant room on the roof needs greater fire resistance than the elements of structure that
support it.
b. If an element of structure forms part of more than one building or compartment, that element
should be constructed to the standard of the higher of the relevant provisions.
c. If, due to the slope of the ground, one side of a basement is open at ground level (allowing
smoke to vent and providing access for firefighting) for elements of structure in that storey
it may be appropriate to adopt the standard of fire resistance that applies to above-ground
structures.
d. Although most elements of structure in a single storey building may not need fire resistance, fire
resistance is needed if one of the following applies to the element.
i. It is part of, or supports, an external wall, and there is provision in the guidance on
requirement B4 to limit the extent of openings and other unprotected areas in the wall.
ii. It is part of, or supports, a compartment wall, including a wall that is common to two or
more buildings.
iii. It supports a gallery.
B26 For the purposes of this paragraph, the ground storey of a building that has one or more basement
storeys and no upper storeys may be considered as a single storey building. The fire resistance of
the basement storeys should be that specified for basements.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 149
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 162 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Table B3 Limitations on the use of uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes. These
limitations do not apply to glazed elements that satisfy the relevant insulation
criterion, see Table B1
Position of glazed element Maximum total glazed area in parts of a building with access to:
A single stair More than one stair
Walls Door leaf Walls Door leaf
Flats
1. Within the enclosures of a protected Fixed fanlights Unlimited Fixed fanlights Unlimited
entrance hall or protected landing, or only above 1100mm only above 1100mm
within fire resisting separation shown from floor from floor
in Section 3, Diagram 3.4, of Approved
Document B Volume 1.
Dwellinghouses
2. Within either: Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
above 1100mm above 1100mm
a. t he enclosures of a protected stairway
from floor or from floor or
b. f ire resisting separation shown in pitch of the pitch of the
Diagram 2.2 of Approved Document B stair stair
Volume 1.
3. Within fire resisting separation either: Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
above 100mm above 100mm above 100mm above 100mm
a. s hown in Diagram 2.4 of Approved
from floor from floor from floor from floor
Document B Volume 1
b. d escribed in paragraph 2.16b of
Approved Document B Volume 1.
4. Existing window between an attached/ Unlimited Not applicable Unlimited Not applicable
integral garage and the dwellinghouse.
5. Adjacent to an external escape stair Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
(see paragraph 2.17 and Diagram 2.7 of
Approved Document B Volume 1) or
roof escape route (see paragraph 2.13 of
Approved Document B Volume 1).
General (except dwellinghouses)
6. Between residential/sleeping Nil Nil Nil Nil
accommodation and a common escape
route (corridor, lobby or stair).
7. Between a protected stairway(1) and either: Nil 25% of door Unlimited 50% of door
area above area
a. the accommodation
1100mm(2)
b. a corridor that is not a protected
corridor other than in item 6 above.
8. Between either: Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
above 1100mm above 100mm above 100mm above 100mm
a. a protected stairway(1) and a protected
from floor from floor from floor from floor
lobby or protected corridor
b. accommodation and a protected lobby
other than in item 6 above.
150 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 163 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Table B3 Continued
Position of glazed element Maximum total glazed area in parts of a building with access to:
A single stair More than one stair
Walls Door leaf Walls Door leaf
9. Between the accommodation and a Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
protected corridor that forms a dead end, above 1100mm above 100mm above 1100mm above 100mm
other than in item 6 above. from floor from floor from floor from floor
10. Between accommodation and any other Not applicable Not applicable Unlimited Unlimited
corridor, or subdividing corridors, other above 100mm above 100mm
than in item 6 above. from floor from floor
11. Beside an external escape route. Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
above 1100mm above 1100mm above 1100mm above 1100mm
from floor from floor from floor from floor
12. Beside an external escape stair (see Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
paragraph 3.32 and Diagram 3.4) or roof
escape route (see paragraph 2.32).
NOTES:
Items 1 and 8 apply also to single storey buildings.
Fire resisting glass should be marked with the name of the manufacturer and the name of the product.
Further guidance can be found in A Guide to Best Practice in the Specification and Use of Fire-resistant Glazed
Systems published by the Glass and Glazing Federation.
1. If the protected stairway is also a protected shaft or a firefighting stair (see Section 17), there may be further
restrictions on the use of glazed elements.
2. Measured vertically from the landing floor level or the stair pitch line.
3. The 100mm limit is intended to reduce the risk of fire spreading from a floor covering.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 151
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 164 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Appendix B: Performance of materials,
products and structures
Introduction
B1 The guidance in this document is given in terms of performance classifications in relation to
European Standards. In such cases, it will be necessary to demonstrate that a system or product
can meet the relevant performance classification. This will be achieved if the system or product
complies with one of the following.
a. They should be in accordance with a specification or design that has been shown by specific
test(s) to be capable of meeting that performance classification.
b. They should have been designed by using relevant design standards in order to meet that
performance classification.
c. They should have been assessed by applying relevant test evidence, in lieu of carrying out a
specific test, as being capable of meeting that performance classification.
NOTE: Some products are subject to Classifcation Without Further Testing (CWFT). For the purposes
of this approved document, such products can be considered to have been shown to be capable of
meeting a performance specifcation as per paragraph B1a.
B2 Any test evidence used to demonstrate the fire performance classification of a product or system
should be carefully checked to ensure that it is applicable to the intended use. Small differences in
detail, such as fixing method, joints, dimensions, the introduction of insulation materials and air gaps
(ventilated or not), might significantly affect the performance and should be tested or assessed in
accordance with paragraph B1.
B3 Assessments should not be regarded as a way to avoid a test where one is necessary. Assessments
should only be carried out where sufficient relevant test evidence is available. Relevant test
evidence is unlikely to be provided by test standards which have different classification criteria.
B4 Where it is proposed to assess the classification of a product or system in lieu of carrying out a
specific test (as in paragraph B1c), this should be done in accordance with the relevant standard for
extended application for the test in question and should include details of the test evidence that
has been used to support the assessment.
For performance classifications where there is no specific standard for extended application,
assessment reports should be produced in accordance with the principles of BS EN 15725 and
should include details of the test evidence that has been used to support the assessment. In
cases where the end use application is not covered by the extended application standard and
an assessment is the only other suitable approach, then further information on best practice is
provided in the Passive Fire Protection Forum’s Guide to Undertaking Technical Assessments of the
Fire Performance of Construction Products Based on Fire Test Evidence. The same principle should
be followed for assessments as described in paragraph B2.
NOTE: Regulation 7(2) limits components used in or on the external walls of certain buildings
to materials achieving class A2-s1, d0 or class A1 (see Section 12). Assessments cannot be used to
demonstrate compliance with this requirement.
152 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 165 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
B5 Tests and assessments should be carried out by organisations with the necessary expertise. For
example, organisations listed as ‘notified bodies’ in accordance with the European Construction
Products Regulation or laboratories accredited by the United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS)
for the relevant test standard can be assumed to have the necessary expertise.
NOTE: Standard fire tests do not directly measure fire hazard. They measure or assess the response
of a material or system to exposure to one or more aspects of fire conditions. Performance in fire
tests is only one of a number of factors that should be taken into account.
Reaction to fire
B6 Reaction to fire relates to the degree to which a product will contribute, by its own decomposition,
to a fire under specified conditions. Products, other than floorings, are classified as A1, A2, B, C, D,
E or F (with class A1 being the highest performance and F being the lowest) in accordance with BS
EN 13501-1. Class F is assigned when a product fails to attain class E. Untested products cannot be
classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-1.
Materials covered by the Classification Without Further Testing (CWFT) process can be found by
accessing the European Commission’s website https://eur-lex.europa.eu/.
B7 The classes of reaction to fire performance of A2, B, C, D and E are accompanied by additional
classifications related to the production of smoke (s1, s2, s3), with s1 indicating the lowest
production, and/or flaming droplets/particles (d0, d1, d2), with d0 indicating the lowest production.
NOTE: When a classification includes s3, d2 this means that there is no limit set for smoke
production and/or flaming droplets/particles.
B8 To reduce the testing burden on manufacturers, BS EN 13238 defines a number of standard
substrates that produce test results representative of different end use applications. The
classification for reaction to fire achieved during testing is only valid when the product is used
within this direct field of application, i.e. when the product is fixed to a substrate of that class in
its end use. The standard substrate selected for testing should take account of the intended end
use applications (field of application) of the product and represent end use substrates that have a
density of a minimum of 75% of the standard substrate’s nominal density.
B9 Standard substrates include gypsum plasterboard (BS EN 520) with a density of 700+/-100kg/m3,
calcium silicate board (BS EN 14306) 870+/-50kg/m3 and fibre-cement board 1800+/-200kg/m3.
NOTE: Standard calcium silicate board is not representative of gypsum plasterboard end use (due
to the paper layer), but would be representative of most gypsum plasters (with densities of more
than 650kg/m3).
NOTE: Classifications based on tests using a plasterboard substrate would also be acceptable for
products bonded to a gypsum plaster end use substrate.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 153
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 166 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Thermoplastic materials
B10 Thermoplastic material is any synthetic polymeric material that has a softening point below 200°C
if tested to BS EN ISO 306 Method A120. Products formed from these materials cannot always be
classified in the normal way. In those circumstances the following approach can be followed.
B11 Thermoplastic materials used for window glazing, rooflights and lighting diffusers within suspended
ceilings do not need to meet the criteria within paragraph B18 onwards, if the guidance to requirements
B2 and B4 is followed.
B12 For the purposes of requirements B2 and B4, thermoplastic materials should be classified as TP(a) rigid,
TP(a) flexible or TP(b), as follows:
a. TP(a) rigid
i. rigid solid uPVC sheet
ii. solid (as distinct from double- or multi-skinned) polycarbonate sheet a minimum of 3mm
thick
iii. any other rigid thermoplastic product, a specimen of which (at the thickness of the
product as put on the market), when tested to BS 2782-0 Method 508A, performs so that
both:
• the test flame extinguishes before the first mark
• the duration of flaming or afterglow does not exceed 5 seconds following removal of
the burner.
b. TP(a) flexible
Flexible products a maximum of 1mm thick that comply with the Type C requirements of
BS 5867-2 when tested to BS 5438 Test 2 with the flame applied to the surface of the
specimens for 5, 15, 20 and 30 seconds respectively, but excluding the cleansing procedure; and
c. TP(b)
i. rigid solid polycarbonate sheet products a maximum of 3mm thick, or multi-skinned
polycarbonate sheet products that do not qualify as TP(a) by test
ii. other products which, when a specimen of the material between 1.5 and 3mm thick is
tested in accordance with BS 2782-0 Method 508A, have a maximum rate of burning of
50mm/minute.
NOTE: If it is not possible to cut or machine a 3mm thick specimen from the product, then a 3mm
test specimen can be moulded from the same material as that used to manufacture the product.
B13 A thermoplastic material alone when used as a lining to a wall or ceiling cannot be assumed to
protect a substrate. The surface rating of both thermoplastic material and substrate must therefore
meet the required classification.
If, however, the thermoplastic material is fully bonded to a non-thermoplastic substrate, then only
the surface rating of the composite needs to meet the required classification.
154 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 167 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Roofs
B14 Performance of the resistance of roofs to external fire exposure is measured in terms of
penetration through the roof construction and the spread of flame over its surface.
B15 Roof constructions are classified within the European system as B (t4), C (t4), D (t4), E (t4)
ROOF ROOF ROOF ROOF
or F (t4) in accordance with BS EN 13501-5. B (t4) indicates the highest performance and
ROOF ROOF
F (t4) the lowest.
ROOF
B16 BS EN 13501-5 refers to four separate roof tests. The suffix (t4) used in paragraph B15 indicates that
Test 4 is to be used for the purposes of this approved document.
B17 This document uses the European classification system for roof covering set out in BS EN
13501-5; however, there may be some products or systems whose performance will need to be
assessed based on the recommendations of paragraphs B1 to B5 as being capable of meeting that
performance classification.
Fire resistance
B18 Common to all of the provisions of Part B of the Building Regulations is the property of fire
resistance. Fire resistance is a measure of one or more of the following criteria.
a. Resistance to collapse (loadbearing capacity), which applies to loadbearing elements only,
denoted R in the European classification of the resistance to fire performance.
b. Resistance to fire penetration (integrity), denoted E in the European classification of the
resistance to fire performance.
c. Resistance to the transfer of excessive heat (insulation), denoted I in the European
classification of the resistance to fire performance.
B19 The standards of fire resistance necessary for a particular building are based on assumptions about
the severity of fires and the consequences should an element fail. Fire severity is estimated in very
broad terms from the use of the building (its purpose group), on the assumption that the building
contents (which constitute the fire load) are similar for buildings with the same use.
B20 Because the use of buildings may change, a precise estimate of fire severity based on the fire load
due to a particular use may be misleading. Therefore if a fire engineering approach of this kind is
adopted, the likelihood that the fire load may change in the future needs to be considered.
B21 Performance in terms of the fire resistance to be achieved by elements of structure, doors and
other forms of construction is classified in accordance with one of the following.
a. BS EN 13501-2.
b. BS EN 13501-3.
c. BS EN 13501-4.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 155
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 168 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
B22 Fire resistance is measured in minutes. This relates to time elapsed in a standard test and should not
be confused with real time.
B23 The fire resistance necessary for different circumstances is set out in the following tables.
a. Table B1 gives the specific requirements for each element of structure.
b. Table B2 sets out the minimum periods of fire resistance for elements of structure.
c. Table B3 sets out limitations on the use of uninsulated fire resisting glazed elements.
B24 This document uses the European classification system (REI) for fire resistance set out in BS EN
13501-2 to 4. Fire resistance is expressed as REI X, where X is the period of fire resistance in minutes
in terms of loadbearing capacity (R), integrity (E) and insulation (I). Products or systems cannot
typically assume a European class unless they have been tested and classified accordingly.
B25 Products or systems achieving the European classification (REI) should be specified wherever
possible. However, there may be some products or systems that have been assessed as being
capable of meeting a fire resistance performance classification. When assessed, products or systems
should follow the relevant test standards to indicate their fire resistance performance in terms of
loadbearing capacity, integrity and insulation based on the recommendations of paragraphs B1 to
B5. In those situations, the performance classifications given in Table B1 and Table B2 may be used.
Table B1 Specific provisions of the test for fire resistance of elements of structure, etc.
Part of building Minimum provisions when tested and classified Type of exposure
to the relevant European standard (minutes)(1)
or assessed following the recommendations of
paragraphs B1 to B5 (minutes)(2)
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
capacity(3)
1. Structural frame, beam or column. See Table B2 Not applicable Not applicable Exposed faces
2. Loadbearing wall See Table B2 Not applicable Not applicable Each side
separately
(for a wall which is also described in
any of the following items, the more
onerous guidance should be applied).
3. Floors(4)
a. between a shop and flat above 60 min or 60 min or 60 min or From underside(5)
see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2
(whichever is (whichever is (whichever is
greater) greater) greater)
b. in upper storey of two storey 30 min 15 min 15 min From underside (5)
dwellinghouse (but not over garage
or basement)
c. any other floor – including See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 From underside (5)
compartment floors.
4. Roofs
a. any part forming an escape route 30 min 30 min 30 min From underside (5)
b. any roof that performs the function See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 From underside (5)
of a floor.
156 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 169 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Table B1 Continued
Part of building Minimum provisions when tested and classified Type of exposure
to the relevant European standard (minutes)(1)
or assessed following the recommendations of
paragraphs B1 to B5 (minutes)(2)
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
capacity(3)
5. External walls
a. any part a maximum of 1000mm from See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 Each side
any point on the relevant boundary(6) separately
b. any part a minimum of 1000mm from See Table B2 See Table B2 15 min From inside the
the relevant boundary(6) building
c. any part beside an external escape 30 min 30 min No From inside the
route (Section 2, Diagram 2.7 of provision(7) (8) building
Approved Document B Volume 1 and
Section 3, Diagram 3.4).
6. Compartment walls
Separating either:
a. a flat from any other part of 60 min or 60 min or 60 min or Each side
the building (see paragraph 7.1 of see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2 separately
Approved Document B Volume 1) (whichever is (whichever is (whichever is
less) less) less)
b. occupancies. 60 min or 60 min or 60 min or Each side
see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2 separately
(whichever is (whichever is (whichever is
less) less) less)
7. Compartment walls See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 Each side
(other than in item 6 or item 10). separately
8. Protected shafts
Excluding any firefighting shaft:
a. any glazing described in Section 8, Not applicable 30 min No provision(8) Each side
Diagram 8.4 separately
b. any other part between the shaft 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
and a protected lobby/corridor separately
described in Section 8, Diagram 8.4
c. any part not described in (a) or (b) See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 Each side
above. separately
9. Enclosure (that does not form
part of a compartment wall or a
protected shaft) to a:
a. protected stairway 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
separately
b. lift shaft. 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
separately
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 157
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 170 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B D
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Table B1 Continued
Part of building Minimum provisions when tested and classified Type of exposure
to the relevant European standard (minutes)(1)
or assessed following the recommendations of
paragraphs B1 to B5 (minutes)(2)
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
capacity(3)
10. Wall or floor separating an 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) From garage
attached or integral garage from a side
dwellinghouse
11. Fire resisting construction in 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
dwellinghouses not described separately
elsewhere
12. Firefighting shafts 120 min 120 min 120 min From side remote
from shaft
a. construction that separates 60 min 60 min 60 min From shaft side
firefighting shaft from rest of building
b. construction that separates 60 min 60 min 60 min Each side
firefighting stair, firefighting lift shaft separately
and firefighting lobby.
13. Enclosure (that is not a compartment
wall or described in item 8) to a:
a. protected lobby 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
separately
b. protected corridor. 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
separately
14. Sub-division of a corridor 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
separately
15. Fire resisting construction
a. construction that encloses places of 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
special fire hazard separately
b. construction between store rooms 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
and sales area in shops separately
c. fire resisting sub-division 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
separately
d. construction that encloses bedrooms 30 min 30 min 30 min Each side
and ancillary accommodation in care separately
homes.
16. Enclosure in a flat to a protected 30 min 30 min 30 min(8) Each side
entrance hall, or to a protected separately
landing.
17. Cavity barrier Not applicable 30 min 15 min Each side
separately
18. Ceiling see see paragraph 2.5, Not applicable 30 min 30 min From underside
Diagram 2.3 of Approved Document
B Volume 1 and paragraph 9.5 and
Diagram 9.3.
158 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 171 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Table B1 Continued
Part of building Minimum provisions when tested and classified Type of exposure
to the relevant European standard (minutes)(1)
or assessed following the recommendations of
paragraphs B1 to B5 (minutes)(2)
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
capacity(3)
19. Duct described in paragraph 9.17e. Not applicable 30 min No provision From outside
20. Casing around a drainage system Not applicable 30 min No provision From outside
described in Diagram 9.1 of Approved
Document B Volume 1.
21. Flue walls described in Diagram 10.4. Not applicable Half the period Half the period From outside
given in Table given in Table
B2 for the B2 for the
compartment compartment
wall/floor wall/floor
22. Construction described in note Not applicable 30 min 30 min From underside
(a) to paragraph 12.9 of Approved
Document B Volume 1.
23. Fire doorsets See Table C1 See
Appendix C
NOTES:
1. Classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-2, BS EN 13501-3 or BS EN 13501-4. In the European classification ‘R’ is the
resistance to fire in terms of loadbearing capacity, ‘E’ is the resistance to fire in terms of integrity, ‘I’ is the resistance
to fire in terms of insulation. Products or systems cannot typically assume a European class unless they have been
tested and classified accordingly.
2. When assessed as being capable of meeting a performance classification, products or systems should follow the
relevant test standards to indicate their fire resistance performance in terms of loadbearing capacity, integrity or
insulation for a period of minutes, when following the recommendations of paragraphs B1 to B5.
3. Applies to loadbearing elements only (see paragraph B18).
4. Guidance on increasing the fire resistance of existing timber floors is given in BRE Digest 208.
5. Only if a suspended ceiling meets the appropriate provisions should it be relied on to add to the fire resistance of
the floor.
6. Such walls may contain areas that do not need to be fire resisting (unprotected areas). See Section 13.
7. Unless needed as part of a wall in item 5a or 5b.
8. Except for any limitations on uninsulated glazed elements given in Table B3.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 159
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 172 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B D
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Table B2 Minimum periods of fire resistance
Purpose group of building Minimum periods of fire resistance(1) (minutes) in a:
Basement storey* Ground or upper storey
including floor over
Depth (m) of the lowest Height (m) of top floor above ground, in a building or
basement separated part of a building
More than Up to 10 Up to 5 Up to 11 Up to 18 Up to 30 More than
10 30
1. Residential:
a. Block of flats
– without sprinkler 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min+§ Not Not Not
system permitted(2) permitted(2) permitted(2)
– with sprinkler system(3) 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min+§ 60 min+§ 90 min+ 120 min+
b. and c. Dwellinghouse Not 30 min*† 30 min† 60 min(5) 60 min(5) Not Not
applicable(4) applicable(4) applicable(4)
2. Residential
a. Institutional 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
b. Other residential 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
3. Office:
– without sprinkler 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 60 min 60 min 30 min† 30 min† 30 min† 60 min 120 min‡
4. Shop and commercial:
– without sprinkler 90 min 60 min 60 min 60 min 60 min 90 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 60 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 60 min 120 min‡
5. Assembly and
recreation:
– without sprinkler 90 min 60 min 60 min 60 min 60 min 90 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 60 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 60 min 120 min‡
6. Industrial:
– without sprinkler 120 min 90 min 60 min 90 min 90 min 120 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
7. Storage and other non-
residential:
a. any building or part not
described elsewhere:
– without sprinkler 120 min 90 min 60 min 90 min 90 min 120 min Not
system permitted(6)
– with sprinkler system(3) 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
160 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 173 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Table B2 Continued
Purpose group of building Minimum periods of fire resistance(1) (minutes) in a:
Basement storey* Ground or upper storey
including floor over
Depth (m) of the lowest Height (m) of top floor above ground, in a building or
basement separated part of a building
More than Up to 10 Up to 5 Up to 11 Up to 18 Up to 30 More than
10 30
b. car park for light vehicles:
i. open sided car park(7) Not Not 15 min†# 15 min†#(8) 15 min†#(8) 15 min†#(8) 60 min
applicable applicable
ii. any other car park 90 min 60 min 30 min† 60 min 60 min 90 min 120 min‡
NOTES:
For single storey buildings, the periods under the heading ‘Up to 5’ apply. If single storey buildings have basements,
for the basement storeys the period appropriate to their depth applies.
* For the floor over a basement or, if there is more than one basement, the floor over the topmost basement, the
higher of the period for the basement storey and the period for the ground or upper storey applies.
† For compartment walls that separate buildings, the period is increased to a minimum of 60 minutes.
+ For any floor that does not contribute to the support of the building within a flat of more than one storey, the
period is reduced to 30 minutes.
§ For flat conversions, refer to paragraphs 6.5 to 6.7 of Approved Document B Volume 1 regarding the acceptability
of 30 minutes.
‡ For elements that do not form part of the structural frame, the period is reduced to 90 minutes.
# For elements that protect the means of escape, the period is increased to 30 minutes.
1. Refer to note 1, Table B1 for the specific provisions of test.
2. Blocks of flats with a top storey more than 11m above ground level (see Diagram D6) should be fitted with a
sprinkler system in accordance with Appendix E.
NOTE: Sprinklers should be provided within the individual flats, they do not need to be provided in the common
areas such as stairs, corridors or landings when these areas are fire sterile.
3. ‘With sprinkler system’ means that the building is fitted throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Appendix E.
4. Very large (with a top storey more than 18m above ground level or with a 10m deep basement) or unusual
dwellinghouses are outside the scope of the guidance provided with regard to dwellinghouses.
5. A minimum of 30 minutes in the case of three storey dwellinghouses, increased to 60 minutes minimum for
compartment walls separating buildings.
6. Buildings within the ‘office’, ‘shop and commercial’, ‘assembly and recreation’, ‘industrial’ and ‘storage and other
non-residential’ (except car parks for light vehicles) purpose groups (purpose groups 3 to 7(a)) require sprinklers
where there is a top storey more than 30m above ground level.
7. The car park should comply with the relevant provisions in the guidance on requirement B3, Section 11.
8. For the purposes of meeting the Building Regulations, the following types of steel elements are deemed to have
satisfied the minimum period of fire resistance of 15 minutes when tested to the European test method.
i. Beams supporting concrete floors, maximum Hp/A=230m-1 operating under full design load.
ii. Free-standing columns, maximum Hp/A=180m-1 operating under full design load.
iii. Wind bracing and struts, maximum Hp/A=210m-1 operating under full design load.
Guidance is also available in BS EN 1993-1-2.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 161
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 174 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B D
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Application of the fire resistance standards in Table B2
B26 The following guidance should be used when applying the fire resistance standards in Table B2.
a. If one element of structure supports or carries or gives stability to another, the fire resistance
of the supporting element should be no less than the minimum period of fire resistance for
the other element (whether that other element is loadbearing or not). In some circumstances,
it may be reasonable to vary this principle, for example:
i. if the supporting structure is in the open air and is not likely to be afected by the fre in
the building
ii. if the supporting structure is in a diferent compartment, with a fre-separating element
(that has the higher standard of fire resistance) between the supporting and the separated
structure
iii. if a plant room on the roof needs greater fire resistance than the elements of structure that
support it.
b. If an element of structure forms part of more than one building or compartment, that element
should be constructed to the standard of the higher of the relevant provisions.
c. If, due to the slope of the ground, one side of a basement is open at ground level (allowing
smoke to vent and providing access for firefighting) for elements of structure in that storey
it may be appropriate to adopt the standard of fire resistance that applies to above-ground
structures.
d. Although most elements of structure in a single storey building may not need fire resistance,
fire resistance is needed if one of the following applies to the element.
i. It is part of, or supports, an external wall, and there is provision in the guidance on
requirement B4 to limit the extent of openings and other unprotected areas in the wall.
ii. It is part of, or supports, a compartment wall, including a wall that is common to two or
more buildings.
iii. It supports a gallery.
B27 For the purposes of this paragraph, the ground storey of a building that has one or more basement
storeys and no upper storeys may be considered as a single storey building. The fire resistance of
the basement storeys should be that specified for basements.
162 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 175 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Table B3 Limitations on the use of uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes. These
limitations do not apply to glazed elements that satisfy the relevant insulation
criterion, see Table B1
Position of glazed element Maximum total glazed area in parts of a building with access to:
A single stair More than one stair
Walls Door leaf Walls Door leaf
Flats
1. Within the enclosures of a protected Fixed fanlights Unlimited Fixed fanlights Unlimited
entrance hall or protected landing, or only above 1100mm only above 1100mm
within fire resisting separation shown from floor from floor
in Section 3, Diagram 3.4 of Approved
Document B Volume 1.
Dwellinghouses
2. Within either: Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
above 1100mm above 1100mm
a. t he enclosures of a protected stairway
from floor or from floor or
b. f ire resisting separation shown in pitch of the pitch of the
Diagram 2.2 of Approved Document B stair stair
Volume 1.
3. Within fire resisting separation either: Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
above 100mm above 100mm above 100mm above 100mm
a. s hown in Diagram 2.4 of Approved
from floor from floor from floor from floor
Document B Volume 1
b. d escribed in paragraph 2.16b of
Approved Document B Volume 1.
4. Existing window between an attached/ Unlimited Not applicable Unlimited Not applicable
integral garage and the dwellinghouse.
5. Adjacent to an external escape stair (see Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
paragraph 2.17 and Diagram 27 of Approved
Document B Volume 1) or roof escape
route (see paragraph 2.13 of Approved
Document B Volume 1).
General (except dwellinghouses)
6. Between residential/sleeping Nil Nil Nil Nil
accommodation and a common escape
route (corridor, lobby or stair).
7. Between a protected stairway(1) and either: Nil 25% of door Unlimited 50% of door
area above area
a. the accommodation
1100mm(2)
b. a corridor that is not a protected
corridor other than in item 6 above.
8. Between either: Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
above 1100mm above 100mm above 100mm above 100mm
a. a protected stairway(1) and a protected
from floor from floor from floor from floor
lobby or protected corridor
b. accommodation and a protected lobby
other than in item 6 above.
9. Between the accommodation and a Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
protected corridor that forms a dead end, above 1100mm above 100mm above 1100mm above 100mm
other than in item 6 above. from floor from floor from floor from floor
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 163
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 176 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Table B3 Continued
Position of glazed element Maximum total glazed area in parts of a building with access to:
A single stair More than one stair
Walls Door leaf Walls Door leaf
10. Between accommodation and any other Not applicable Not applicable Unlimited Unlimited
corridor, or sub-dividing corridors, other above 100mm above 100mm
than in item 6 above. from floor from floor
11. Beside an external escape route. Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
above 1100mm above 1100mm above 1100mm above 1100mm
from floor from floor from floor from floor
12. Beside an external escape stair (see Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited
paragraph 3.32 and Diagram 3.4) or roof
escape route (see paragraph 2.32).
NOTES:
Items 1 and 8 apply also to single storey buildings.
Fire resisting glass should be marked with the name of the manufacturer and the name of the product.
Further guidance can be found in A Guide to Best Practice in the Specification and Use of Fire-resistant Glazed
Systems published by the Glass and Glazing Federation.
1. If the protected stairway is also a protected shaft or a firefighting stair (see Section 17), there may be further
restrictions on the use of glazed elements.
2. Measured vertically from the landing floor level or the stair pitch line.
3. The 100mm limit is intended to reduce the risk of fire spreading from a floor covering.
164 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 177 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
E C
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 171
Appendix C: Fire doorsets
C1 All fire doorsets should have the performance shown in Table C1, based on one of the following.
a. Fire resistance in terms of integrity, for a period of minutes, when tested to BS 476-22, e.g. FD 30.
A suffix (S) is added for doorsets where restricted smoke leakage at ambient temperatures is needed.
b. As determined with reference to Commission Decision 2000/367/EC regarding the classification
of the resistance to fire performance of construction products, construction works and parts
thereof. All fire doorsets should be classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-2, tested to the
relevant European method from the following.
i. BS EN 1634-1.
ii. BS EN 1634-2.
iii. BS EN 1634-3.
c. As determined with reference to European Parliament and Council Directive 95/16/EC (which
applies to lifts that permanently serve buildings and constructions and specified safety
components) on the approximation of laws of Member States relating to lifts (‘Lifts Directive’)
implementing the Lifts Regulations 1997 (SI 1997/831) and calling upon the harmonised standard
BS EN 81-58.
C2 The performance requirement is in terms of integrity (E) for a period of minutes. An additional
classification of S is used for all doors where restricted smoke leakage at ambient temperatures is
a
needed.
C3 The requirement is for test exposure from each side of the doorset separately. The exception is lift
doors, which are tested from the landing side only.
C4 Any test evidence used to verify the fire resistance rating of a doorset or shutter should be checked
to ensure both of the following.
a. It adequately demonstrates compliance.
b. It is applicable to the complete installed assembly. Small differences in detail may significantly
affect the rating.
Until relevant harmonised product standards are published, for the purposes of meeting the
Building Regulations, products tested in accordance with BS EN 1634-1 (with or without pre-fire
test mechanical conditioning) that achieve the minimum performance in Table C1 will be deemed
to satisfy the provisions.
C5 All fire doorsets, including to flat entrances and between a dwellinghouse and an integral garage,
should be fitted with a self-closing device, except for all of the following.
a. Fire doorsets to cupboards.
b. Fire doorsets to service ducts normally locked shut.
c. Fire doorsets within flats and dwellinghouses.
C6 If a self-closing device would be considered to interfere with the normal approved use of the
building, self-closing fire doors may be held open by one of the following.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 165
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 178 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C F
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 171
a. A fusible link, but not if the doorset is in an opening provided as a means of escape unless it
complies with paragraph C7.
b. An automatic release mechanism activated by an automatic fire detection and alarm system.
c. A door closer delay device.
C7 Two fire doorsets may be fitted in the same opening if each door is capable of closing the opening,
so the total fire resistance is the sum of their individual resistances. If the opening is provided as a
means of escape, both fire doorsets should be self-closing.
If one fire doorset is capable of being easily opened by hand and has a minimum of 30 minutes’ fire
resistance, the other fire doorset should comply with both of the following.
a. Be fitted with an automatic self-closing device.
b. Be held open by a fusible link.
C8 Fire doorsets often do not provide any significant insulation. Unless providing both integrity
and insulation in accordance with Appendix B, Table B1, a maximum of 25% of the length of a
compartment wall should consist of door openings.
Where it is practicable to maintain a clear space on both sides of the doorway, the above
percentage may be greater.
C9 Rolling shutters should be capable of manual opening and closing for firefighting purposes (see
Section 17). Rolling shutters across a means of escape should only be released by a heat sensor, such
as a fusible link or electric heat detector, in the immediate vicinity of the door.
Unless a shutter is also intended to partially descend as part of a boundary to a smoke reservoir,
shutters across a means of escape should not be closed by smoke detectors or a fire alarm system.
C10 Unless shown to be satisfactory when tested as part of a fire doorset assembly, the essential
components of any hinge on which a fire door is hung should be made entirely from materials that
have a minimum melting point of 800°C.
C11 Except for doorsets listed in paragraph C12, all fire doorsets should be marked with one of the
following fire safety signs, complying with BS 5499-5, as appropriate.
a. To be kept closed when not in use – mark ‘Fire door keep shut’.
b. To be kept locked when not in use – mark ‘Fire door keep locked shut’.
c. Held open by an automatic release mechanism or free swing device – mark ‘Automatic fire door
keep clear’.
All fire doorsets should be marked on both sides, except fire doorsets to cupboards and service
ducts, which should be marked on the outside.
C12 The following fire doorsets are not required to comply with paragraph C11.
a. Doors to and within flats and dwellinghouses.
b. Bedroom doors in ‘residential (other)’ (purpose group 2(b)) premises.
c. Lift entrance/landing doors.
C13 The performance of some doorsets set out in Table C1 is linked to the minimum periods of fire
resistance for elements of structure given in Tables B1 and B2. Limitations on the use of uninsulated
glazing in fire doorsets are given in Table B3.
166 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 179 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
F C
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 171
C14 Recommendations for the specification, design, construction, installation and maintenance of fire
doorsets constructed with non-metallic door leaves are given in BS 8214.
Guidance on timber fire resisting doorsets, in relation to the new European test standard, may be
found in Timber Fire Resisting Doorsets: Maintaining Performance Under the New European Test
Standard published by the Timber Research and Development Association (TRADA).
Guidance for metal doors is given in Code of Practice for Fire Resisting Metal Doorsets published by
the Door and Shutter Manufacturers’ Association (DSMA).
C15 Hardware used on fire doors can significantly affect their performance in a fire. Notwithstanding the
guidance in this approved document, guidance is available in Hardware for Fire and Escape Doors
published by the Door and Hardware Federation (DHF) and Guild of Architectural Ironmongers (GAI).
Effective until 29 September 2026 – see 2026 amendment, page 169
Table C1 Provisions for fire doorsets
Position of door Minimum fire resistance of door Minimum fire resistance of
in terms of integrity (minutes) door in terms of integrity
when tested to the relevant (minutes) when tested to
European standard(1) BS 476-22
1. In a compartment wall separating buildings Same as for the wall in which Same as for the wall in which
the door is fitted, but a the door is fitted, but a
minimum of 60 minutes minimum of 60 minutes
2. In a compartment wall:
a. i f it separates a flat from a space in E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
common use
b. enclosing a protected shaft forming E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
a stairway wholly or partly above the
adjoining ground in a building used for
flats, other residential, assembly and
recreation, or office purposes
c. e nclosing a protected shaft forming a Half the period of fire Half the period of fire
stairway not described in (b) above resistance of the wall in which resistance of the wall in
it is fitted, but 30 minutes which it is fitted, but 30
minimum and with suffix S(2) minutes minimum and with
a
suffix S(2)
d. e nclosing a protected shaft forming a lift Half the period of fire Half the period of fire
or service shaft resistance of the wall in which resistance of the wall in
it is fitted, but 30 minutes which it is fitted, but
minimum 30 minutes minimum
e. n ot described in (a), (b), (c) or (d) above. Same as for the wall in which Same as for the wall in which
it is fitted, but add S(2) if the it is fitted, but add S(2) if the
a
door is used for progressive door is used for progressive
horizontal evacuation under the horizontal evacuation under
guidance to requirement B1 the guidance to requirement
B1
3. In a compartment floor Same as for the floor in which Same as for the floor in
it is fitted which it is fitted
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 167
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 180 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C F
Effective until 29 September 2026 – see 2026 amendment, page 169
Table C1 Continued
Position of door Minimum fire resistance of door Minimum fire resistance of
in terms of integrity (minutes) door in terms of integrity
when tested to the relevant (minutes) when tested to
European standard(1) BS 476-22
4. Forming part of the enclosures of:
a. a protected stairway (except as described E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
in item 9 or 11(b) below)
b. a lift shaft (see paragraph 5.34b) that does E 30 FD 30
not form a protected shaft in 2(b), (c) or (d)
above.
5. Forming part of the enclosure of:
a. a protected lobby approach (or protected E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
corridor) to a stairway
b. any other protected corridor E 20 S(2) FD 20 S(2)
a
c. a protected lobby approach to a lift shaft E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
(see paragraph 5.37 to 5.39).
6. Giving access to an external escape route E 30 FD 30
7. Sub-dividing:
a. corridors connecting alternative exits E 20 S(2) FD 20 S(2)
a
b. dead-end portions of corridors from the E 20 S(2) FD 20 S(2)
a
remainder of the corridor.
8. Any door within a cavity barrier E 30 FD 30
9. Any door that forms part of the enclosure E 20 FD 20
to a protected entrance hall or protected
landing in a flat
10. Any door that forms part of the enclosure:
a. to a place of special fire hazard E 30 FD 30
b. to ancillary accommodation in care homes E 30 FD 30
(see paragraph 2.44).
11. In a dwellinghouse:
a. between a dwellinghouse and a garage E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
b. forming part of the enclosures to a E 20 FD 20
protected stairway in a single family
dwellinghouse
c. within any fire resisting construction in a E 20 FD 20
dwellinghouse not described elsewhere in
this table.
NOTES:
1. C lassified in accordance with BS EN 13501-2. National classifications do not necessarily equate with European
classifications, therefore products cannot typically assume a European class unless they have been tested accordingly.
2. Unless pressurisation techniques that comply with BS EN 12101-6 are used, these doors should also comply with
one of the following conditions.
a. Have a leakage rate not exceeding 3m3/m/hour (from head and jambs only) when tested at 25Pa under BS 476-31.1.
b. Meet the additional S classification when tested to BS EN 1634-3.
a
168 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 181 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
G C
2026 amendment – effective from 30 September 2026 until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 171
Table C1 Provisions for fire doorsets
Position of door Minimum fire resistance of door Minimum fire resistance of
in terms of integrity (minutes) door in terms of integrity
when tested to the relevant (minutes) when tested to
European standard(1) BS 476-22
1. In a compartment wall separating buildings Same as for the wall in which Same as for the wall in which
the door is fitted, but a the door is fitted, but a
minimum of 60 minutes minimum of 60 minutes
2. In a compartment wall:
a. i f it separates a flat from a space in E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
common use
b. enclosing a protected shaft forming a E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
stairway or an evacuation shaft wholly
or partly above the adjoining ground in a
building used for flats, other residential,
assembly and recreation, or office
purposes
c. e nclosing a protected shaft forming Half the period of fire resistance Half the period of fire
a stairway or an evacuation shaft not of the wall in which it is fitted, resistance of the wall in
described in (b) above but 30 minutes minimum and which it is fitted, but 30
with suffix S(2) minutes minimum and with
a
suffix S(2)
d. e nclosing a protected shaft forming a lift Half the period of fire resistance Half the period of fire
or service shaft of the wall in which it is fitted, resistance of the wall in
but 30 minutes minimum which it is fitted, but 30
minutes minimum
e. n ot described in (a), (b), (c) or (d) above. Same as for the wall in which Same as for the wall in which
it is fitted, but add S(2) if the it is fitted, but add S(2) if the
a
door is used for progressive door is used for progressive
horizontal evacuation under the horizontal evacuation under
guidance to requirement B1 the guidance to requirement
B1
3. In a compartment floor Same as for the floor in which it Same as for the floor in
is fitted which it is fitted
4. Forming part of the enclosures of:
a. p rotected stairway or evacuation shaft E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
(except as described in item 9 or 11(b)
below)
b. a lift shaft (see paragraph 3.99b) that does E 30 FD 30
not form a protected shaft in 2(b), (c) or (d)
above.
5. Forming part of the enclosure of:
a. a protected lobby approach (or protected E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
corridor) to a stairway or an evacuation
shaft
b. any other protected corridor E 20 S(2) FD 20 S(2)
a
c. a protected lobby approach to a lift shaft E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
(paragraphs 3.102 to 3.104).
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 169
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 182 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C
2026 amendment – effective from 30 September 2026 until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 171
Table C1 Continued
Position of door Minimum fire resistance of Minimum fire resistance of
door in terms of integrity door in terms of integrity
(minutes) when tested to the (minutes) when tested to
relevant European standard(1) BS 476-22
6. Giving access to an external escape route E 30 FD 30
7. Sub-dividing:
a. corridors connecting alternative exits E 20 S (2) FD 20 S(2)
a
b. d ead-end portions of corridors from the E 20 S (2) FD 20 S(2)
a
remainder of the corridor.
8. Any door within a cavity barrier E 30 FD 30
9. Any door that forms part of the enclosure E 20 FD 20
to a protected entrance hall or protected
landing in a flat
10. Any door that forms part of the enclosure:
a. to a place of special fire hazard E 30 FD 30
b. t o ancillary accommodation in care homes E 30 FD 30
(see paragraph 2.44 in Approved Document
B Volume 2).
11. In a dwellinghouse:
a. between a dwellinghouse and a garage E 30 S (2) FD 30 S(2)
a
b. f orming part of the enclosures to a E 20 FD 20
protected stairway in a single family
dwellinghouse
c. w ithin any fire resisting construction in a E 20 FD 20
dwellinghouse not described elsewhere in
this table.
NOTES:
1. C lassified in accordance with BS EN 13501-2. National classifications do not necessarily equate with European
classifications, therefore products cannot typically assume a European class unless they have been tested accordingly.
2. Unless pressurisation techniques that comply with BS EN 12101-6 are used, these doors should also comply with
one of the following conditions.
a. Have a leakage rate not exceeding 3m3/m/hour (from head and jambs only) when tested at 25Pa under BS 476-31.1.
b. Meet the additional S classification when tested to BS EN 1634-3.
a
170 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 183 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Appendix C: Fire doorsets
C1 All fire doorsets should have the performance shown in Table C1, based on one of the following.
a. Fire doorsets should be classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-2, as determined with
reference to Commission Decision 2000/367/EC regarding the classification of the resistance
to fire performance of construction products, construction works and parts thereof, when
tested to the relevant European method from the following.
i. BS EN 1634-1.
ii. BS EN 1634-2.
iii. BS EN 1634-3.
b. Fire doorsets may have their performance on fire resistance assessed, following the
recommendations of paragraphs B1 to B5, as being capable of meeting a performance
classification. In those situations the performance classifications given in Table C1 may be used,
presented in terms of integrity, for a period of minutes, when tested to a relevant standard.
c. As determined with reference to European Parliament and Council Directive 95/16/EC (which
applies to lifts that permanently serve buildings and constructions and specified safety
components) on the approximation of laws of Member States relating to lifts (‘Lifts Directive’)
implementing the Lifts Regulations 1997 (SI 1997/831) and calling upon the harmonised standard
BS EN 81-58.
C2 The performance requirement is in terms of integrity (E) for a period of minutes. An additional
classification of S is used for all doors where restricted smoke leakage at ambient temperatures is
a
needed.
C3 The requirement is for test exposure from each side of the doorset separately. The exception is lift
doors, which are tested from the landing side only.
C4 Any test evidence used to verify the fire resistance rating of a doorset or shutter should be
checked to ensure both of the following.
a. It adequately demonstrates compliance.
b. It is applicable to the complete installed assembly. Small differences in detail might
significantly affect the rating and should be tested or assessed in accordance with paragraphs
B1 to B5.
Until relevant harmonised product standards are published, for the purposes of meeting
the Building Regulations, products or systems tested in accordance with BS EN 1634-1 (with
or without pre-fire test mechanical conditioning) or assessed as being capable of meeting a
performance classification based on the recommendations of paragraphs B1 to B5 that achieve
the minimum performance in Table C1 will be deemed to satisfy the provisions.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 171
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 184 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
C5 All fire doorsets, including to flat entrances and between a dwellinghouse and an integral garage,
should be fitted with a self-closing device, except for all of the following.
a. Fire doorsets to cupboards.
b. Fire doorsets to service ducts normally locked shut.
c. Fire doorsets within flats and dwellinghouses.
C6 If a self-closing device would be considered to interfere with the normal approved use of the
building, self-closing fire doors may be held open by one of the following.
a. A fusible link, but not if the doorset is in an opening provided as a means of escape unless it
complies with paragraph C7.
b. An automatic release mechanism activated by an automatic fire detection and alarm system.
c. A door closer delay device.
C7 Two fire doorsets may be fitted in the same opening if each door is capable of closing the opening,
so the total fire resistance is the sum of their individual resistances. If the opening is provided as a
means of escape, both fire doorsets should be self-closing.
If one fire doorset is capable of being easily opened by hand and has a minimum of 30 minutes’ fire
resistance, the other fire doorset should comply with both of the following.
a. Be fitted with an automatic self-closing device.
b. Be held open by a fusible link.
C8 Fire doorsets often do not provide any significant insulation. Unless providing both integrity
and insulation in accordance with Appendix B, Table B1, a maximum of 25% of the length of a
compartment wall should consist of door openings.
Where it is practicable to maintain a clear space on both sides of the doorway, the above
percentage may be greater.
C9 Rolling shutters should be capable of manual opening and closing for firefighting purposes (see
Section 17). Rolling shutters across a means of escape should only be released by a heat sensor, such
as a fusible link or electric heat detector, in the immediate vicinity of the door.
Unless a shutter is also intended to partially descend as part of a boundary to a smoke reservoir,
shutters across a means of escape should not be closed by smoke detectors or a fire alarm system.
C10 Unless shown to be satisfactory when tested as part of a fire doorset assembly, the essential
components of any hinge on which a fire door is hung should be made entirely from materials that
have a minimum melting point of 800°C.
172 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 185 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
C11 Except for doorsets listed in paragraph C12, all fire doorsets should be marked with one of the
following fire safety signs, complying with BS 5499-5, as appropriate.
a. To be kept closed when not in use – mark ‘Fire door keep shut’.
b. To be kept locked when not in use – mark ‘Fire door keep locked shut’.
c. Held open by an automatic release mechanism or free swing device – mark ‘Automatic fire
door keep clear’.
C12 The following fire doorsets are not required to comply with paragraph C11.
a. Doors to and within flats and dwellinghouses.
b. Bedroom doors in ‘residential (other)’ (purpose group 2(b)) premises.
c. Lift entrance/landing doors.
C13 The performance of some doorsets set out in Table C1 is linked to the minimum periods of fire
resistance for elements of structure given in Tables B1 and B2. Limitations on the use of uninsulated
glazing in fire doorsets are given in Table B3.
C14 Recommendations for the specification, design, construction, installation and maintenance of fire
doorsets constructed with non-metallic door leaves are given in BS 8214.
Guidance on timber fire resisting doorsets, in relation to the new European test standard, may be
found in Timber Fire Resisting Doorsets: Maintaining Performance Under the New European Test
Standard published by the Timber Research and Development Association (TRADA).
Guidance for metal doors is given in Code of Practice for Fire Resisting Metal Doorsets published
by the Door and Shutter Manufacturers’ Association (DSMA).
C15 Hardware used on fire doors can significantly affect their performance in a fire. Notwithstanding
the guidance in this approved document, guidance is available in Hardware for Fire and Escape
Doors published by the Door and Hardware Federation (DHF) and Guild of Architectural
Ironmongers (GAI).
Table C1 Provisions for fire doorsets
Position of doorset Minimum fire resistance of doorset in terms of
integrity (minutes) when tested and classified to the
relevant European standard(1) or assessed following the
recommendations of paragraph B1 to B5 and C1(2)
1. In a compartment wall separating buildings Same as for the wall in which the door is fitted, but a
minimum of 60 minutes
2. In a compartment wall:
a. if it separates a flat from a space in common 30 minutes S (3)
a
use
b. e nclosing a protected shaft forming a stairway 30 minutes S (3)
a
or an evacuation shaft wholly or partly above
the adjoining ground in a building used for
flats, other residential, assembly and recreation,
or office purposes
c. enclosing a protected shaft forming a stairway Half the period of fire resistance of the wall in which it is
or an evacuation shaft not described in (b) fitted, but 30 minutes minimum and with suffix S (3)
a
above
d. enclosing a protected shaft forming a lift or Half the period of fire resistance of the wall in which it is
service shaft fitted, but 30 minutes minimum
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 173
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 186 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Table C1 Continued
Position of doorset Minimum fire resistance of doorset in terms of
integrity (minutes) when tested and classified to the
relevant European standard(1) or assessed following the
recommendations of paragraph B1 to B5 and C1(2)
e. not described in (a), (b), (c) or (d) above. Same as for the wall in which it is fitted, but add S (3) if the
a
door is used for progressive horizontal evacuation under
the guidance to requirement B1
3. In a compartment floor Same as for the floor in which it is fitted
4. Forming part of the enclosures of:
a. a protected stairway or evacuation shaft 30 minutes S (3)
a
(except as described in item 9 or 11(b) below)
b. a lift shaft (see paragraph 5.34b) that does not 30 minutes
form a protected shaft in 2(b), (c) or (d) above.
5. Forming part of the enclosure of:
a. a protected lobby approach (or protected 30 minutes S(3)
a
corridor) to a stairway or an evacuation shaft.
b. any other protected corridor 20 minutes S(3)
a
c. a protected lobby approach to a lift shaft 30 minutes S(3)
a
(paragraphs 5.37 to 5.39).
6. Giving access to an external escape route 30 minutes
7. Sub-dividing:
a. corridors connecting alternative exits 20 minutes S (3)
a
b. dead-end portions of corridors from the 20 minutes S (3)
a
remainder of the corridor.
8. Any door within a cavity barrier 30 minutes
9. Any door that forms part of the enclosure to a 20 minutes
protected entrance hall or protected landing in
a flat
10. Any door that forms part of the enclosure:
a. to a place of special fire hazard 30 minutes
b. to ancillary accommodation in care homes (see 30 minutes
paragraph 2.44).
11. In a dwellinghouse:
a. between a dwellinghouse and a garage 30 minutes S (3)
a
b. forming part of the enclosures to a protected 20 minutes
stairway in a single family dwellinghouse
c. within any fire resisting construction in a 20 minutes
dwellinghouse not described elsewhere in this
table.
NOTES:
1. Classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-2. In the European classification ‘E’ is the resistance to fire in terms of
integrity. Products or systems cannot typically assume a European class unless they have been tested and classified
accordingly.
2. When assessed as being capable of meeting a performance classification, products or systems should follow the
relevant test standards to indicate their fire resistance performance in terms of integrity for a period of minutes,
when following the recommendations of paragraphs B1 to B5.
3. Unless pressurisation techniques that comply with BS EN 12101-6 are used, these doors should also be evidenced to
match in performance the additional S classification when tested to BS EN 1634-3.
a
174 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 187 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D
Appendix D: Methods of measurement
Occupant number
D1 The number of occupants of a room, storey, building or part of a building is either of the following.
a. The maximum number of people it is designed to hold.
b. In buildings other than dwellings, the number of people calculated by dividing the area of
a room or storey(s) (m2) by a floor space factor (m2 per person) such as given in Table D1 for
guidance.
D2 Counters and display units should be included when measuring area. All of the following should be
excluded.
a. Stair enclosures.
b. Lifts.
c. Sanitary accommodation.
d. Any other fixed part of the building structure.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 175
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 188 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D
Table D1 Floor space factors(1)
Type of accommodation(2)(3) Floor space factor (m2/person)
1. S tanding spectator areas, bar areas (within 2m of serving point), similar 0.3
refreshment areas
2. Amusement arcade, assembly hall (including a general purpose place of 0.5
assembly), bingo hall, club, crush hall, dance floor or hall, venue for pop
concerts and similar events and bar areas without fixed seating
3. Concourse or queuing area(4) 0.7
4. Committee room, common room, conference room, dining room, licensed 1.0
betting office (public area), lounge or bar (other than in (1) above), meeting
room, reading room, restaurant, staff room or waiting room(5)
5. Exhibition hall or studio (film, radio, television, recording) 1.5
6. Skating rink 2.0
7. Shop sales area(6) 2.0
8. Art gallery, dormitory, factory production area, museum or workshop 5.0
9. Office 6.0
10. Shop sales area(7) 7.0
11. Kitchen or library 7.0
12. Bedroom or study-bedroom 8.0
13. Bed-sitting room, billiards or snooker room or hall 10.0
14. Storage and warehousing 30.0
15. Car park Two persons per parking space
NOTES:
1. A s an alternative to using the values in the table, the floor space factor may be determined by reference to actual
data taken from similar premises. Where appropriate, the data should reflect the average occupant density at a
peak trading time of year.
2. W here accommodation is not directly covered by the descriptions given, a reasonable value based on a similar use
may be selected.
3. W here any part of the building is to be used for more than one type of accommodation, the most onerous
factor(s) should be applied. Where the building contains different types of accommodation, the occupancy of
each different area should be calculated using the relevant space factor.
4. F or detailed guidance on appropriate floor space factors for concourses in sports grounds refer to Concourses
published by the Football Licensing Authority.
5. A lternatively the occupant number may be taken as the number of fixed seats provided, if the occupants will
normally be seated.
6. S hops excluding those under item 10, but including: supermarkets and department stores (main sales areas), shops
for personal services, such as hairdressing, and shops for the delivery or collection of goods for cleaning, repair or
other treatment or for members of the public themselves carrying out such cleaning, repair or other treatment.
7. S hops (excluding those in covered shopping complexes but including department stores) trading predominantly
in furniture, floor coverings, cycles, prams, large domestic appliances or other bulky goods, or trading on a
wholesale self-selection basis (cash and carry).
176 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 189 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D
Travel distance
D3 Travel distance is measured as the shortest route. Both of the following should be observed.
a. If there is fixed seating or other fixed obstructions, the shortest route is along the centre line of
the seatways and gangways.
b. If the route includes a stair, the shortest route is along the pitch line on the centre line of travel.
Width
D4 Width is measured according to the following.
a. For a door (or doorway), the clear width when the door is open (Diagram D1).
b. For an escape route, either of the following.
i. When the route is defined by walls: the width at 1500mm above finished floor level.
ii. Elsewhere: the minimum width of passage available between any fixed obstructions.
c. For a stair, the clear width between the walls or balustrades. On escape routes and stairs,
handrails and strings intruding into the width by a maximum of 100mm on each side may be
ignored. Rails used for guiding a stair-lift may be ignored, but it should be possible to park the
lift’s chair or carriage in a position that does not obstruct the stair or landing.
E°ective clear E°ective clear
width (door stop width (door stop to
to projecting door leaf)
ironmongery)
Diagram D1 M easurement of door width
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 177
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 190 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D
Building dimensions
In every case measure the
volume contained by
all of the following.
a. Under surface of roof.
Internal wall Internal wall
or partition or partition b. Upper surface of
lowest foor.
Enclosing wall Enclosing wall
Compartment foor c. Inner surface of
Compartment wall enclosing walls.
When there is not an
outer enclosing wall,
measure to the
outermost edge of the
a. Cubic capacity of a building b. Cubic capacity of compartments foor slab.
or separated part of a building
The measured volume
should include internal
walls and partitions.
Diagram D2 C ubic capacity
a. Surface area: roofs and rooflights
In each case measure the visible area
Measure from Lowest point If a hipped roof, Roof sheeting
outermost point of of roof slope measure to outermost
roof at eaves or verge at eaves point of roof at base area
If a lean-to roof, Outermost
measure from the Highest point point Roofight
face of wall to the of roof slope of roof
outermost point of roof
Section Section Elevation Section
i. Flat or monopitch roof ii. Double pitch roof iii. Rooflight
b. Floor area: c. Floor area:
Room, garage, conservatory or outbuilding, Storey, part or compartment,
measure to inner surface of enclosing walls measure to inner surface of enclosing walls
and include internal walls and partitions
When there is not
an outer enclosing
wall, measure to
the outermost edge
of the foor slab
Diagram D3 Area
178 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 191 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D
Highest point Highest point of
Highest point
of roof slope parapet (including
of roof slope
coping)
Equal Mean roof
level Mean roof
Equal
Lowest point level
of roof slope
Height of
building a b
Highest level Top level
of ground of gutter
adjacent to Mean ground Mean ground
outside walls level level
Use height a or b, whichever is greater
Lowest level a. Double pitch roof b. Mansard type roof
of ground
adjacent to
outside walls
Highest point
of roof slope
Equal Mean roof
level
Lowest point
of roof slope
Height of
building
Highest level
of ground
adjacent to Mean ground
outside walls level
Lowest level c. Flat or monopitch roof
of ground
adjacent to
outside walls
Diagram D4 Height of building
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 179
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 192 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D
Building three storeys
Second
To count the number of storeys in a building,
foor
or in a separated part of a building, count only at
the position which gives the greatest number and
First
exclude any basement storeys.
foor
Ground
foor
Basement
Separated part three storeys
Separated part two storeys
Second
foor
Compartment NOTES:
wall
First
1 . In assembly buildings (purpose group 5), a gallery
foor
is included as a storey, but not if it is a loading gallery,
fy gallery, stage grid, lighting bridge, or any gallery
Ground provided for similar purposes, or for maintenance and
foor repair.
2 . In other purpose group buildings, galleries are not
Basement
counted as a storey.
3 . For the defnition of basement, see Appendix A.
Diagram D5 Number of storeys
Plant Roof
Height of top storey excludes
roof-top plant areas and any
top storeys consisting exclusively
Height of top
of plant rooms
storey measured
from upper foor
surface of top
foor to ground
level on lowest
side of building
Diagram D6 Height of top storey in building
180 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 193 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D
Free area of smoke ventilators
D5 The free area of a smoke ventilator should be measured by either of the following.
a. The declared aerodynamic free area in accordance with BS EN 12101-2.
b. The total unobstructed cross-sectional area (geometric free area), measured in the plane where
the area is at a minimum and at right angles to the direction of air flow (Diagram D7).
a. b.
Free area Free area for louvred
measured at vent = a+a+a+a+a
1 2 3 4 5
right angles to
air fow
a a a a a
1 2 3 4 5
90°
Diagram D7 Free area of smoke ventilators
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 181
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 194 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
E
Appendix E: Sprinklers
Sprinkler systems
E1 Sprinkler systems installed in buildings can reduce the risk to life and significantly reduce the degree
of damage caused by fire within a building.
E2 Further recommendations for the provision of sprinklers are provided in the following sections:
Volume 1 – Dwellings
Functional Paragraph Title
requirement
B1 2.6 Dwellinghouses with two or more storeys more than 4.5m above ground level
B1 2.23 Loft conversions
B1 3.21 Internal planning of multi-storey flats
B3 Table B2 Minimum periods of fire resistance
B3 7.4 Sprinklers
B4 11.15 Unprotected areas and fire resistance – portal frames
B4 11.21 Methods for calculating acceptable unprotected area – sprinkler systems
B5 15.7 Provision of firefighting shafts
Volume 2 – Buildings other than dwellings
Functional Paragraph Title
requirement
B1 2.46 Residential care homes – sprinkler systems
B1 3.21 Width of escape stairs – phased evacuation
B1 5.46 Shop store rooms
B3 7.7 Raised storage areas
B3 Table 8.1 Maximum dimensions of building or compartment
B3 Table B2 Minimum periods of fire resistance
B3 8.14 Sprinklers
B4 13.16 Unprotected areas and fire resistance – portal frames
B4 13.22 Methods for calculating acceptable unprotected area – sprinkler systems
B5 17.8 Location of firefighting shafts
B5 18.11 Provision of smoke outlets – mechanical smoke extract
182 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 195 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
E
Design of sprinkler systems
E3 Where required, sprinkler systems should be provided throughout the building or separated part,
unless acting as a compensatory feature to address a specific risk. They should be designed and
installed in accordance with the following.
a. For residential buildings, the requirements of BS 9251.
b. For non-residential buildings, or residential buildings outside the scope of BS 9251, the
requirements of BS EN 12845, including the relevant hazard classification together with additional
measures to improve system reliability and availability as described in Annex F of the standard.
NOTE: Any sprinkler system installed to satisfy the requirements of Part B of the Building
Regulations should be provided with additional measures to improve system reliability and
availability and is therefore to be regarded as a life safety system. However, there may be some
circumstances in which additional measures to improve system reliability and availability specified in
Annex F of BS EN 12845 are inappropriate or unnecessary.
E4 If the provisions in a building vary from those in this document, sprinkler protection can also
sometimes be used as a compensatory feature.
BS 9251 makes additional recommendations when sprinklers are proposed as compensatory features.
Water supplies and pumps
E5 For non-residential sprinkler systems designed and installed to BS EN 12845, water supplies should
consist of either of the following.
a. Two single water supplies complying with clause 9.6.1, independent of each other.
b. Two stored water supplies meeting all of the following conditions.
i. Gravity or suction tanks should satisfy all the requirements of clause 9.6.2(b), other than
capacity.
ii. Any pump arrangements should comply with clause 10.2.
iii. In addition to meeting the requirements for inflow, either of the following should apply.
• The capacity of each tank should be at least half the specified minimum water volume
of a single full capacity tank, appropriate to the hazard.
• One tank should be at least equivalent to half the specified water volume of a single full
capacity tank, and the other shall not be less than the minimum volume of a reduced
capacity tank (see clause 9.3.4) appropriate to the hazard.
The total capacity of the water supply in (iii), including any inflow for a reduced capacity
tank, should be at least that of a single full holding capacity tank that complies with Table 9,
Table 10 or clause 9.3.2.3, as appropriate to the hazard and pipework design.
E6 For the systems described in paragraph E5, both of the following apply if pumps are used to draw
water from two tanks.
a. Each pump should be able to draw water from either tank.
b. Any one pump, or either tank, should be able to be isolated.
The sprinkler water supplies should not be used as connections for other services or other fixed
firefighting systems.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 183
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 196 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
F
Appendix F: Standards referred to
European Standards BS EN 1366 Fire resistance tests for service
installations
NOTE: All the British and European Standards can
BS EN 1366-2 Fire dampers [2015]
be purchased at the following address: https://
BS EN 1366-8 Smoke extraction ducts [2004]
shop.bsigroup.com/. Alternatively access to the
British and European Standards may be gained at BS EN 1634 Fire resistance and smoke control tests
public reference libraries. for door and shutter assemblies, openable windows
and elements of building hardware
BS EN 54 Fire detection and fire alarm systems
BS EN 1634-1 Fire resistance test for door and
BS EN 54-7 Smoke detectors. Point smoke
shutter assemblies and openable windows [2014
detectors that operate using scattered light,
+ A1 2018]
transmitted light or ionization [2018]
BS EN 1634-2 Fire resistance characterisation test
BS EN 54-11 Manual call points [2001]
for elements of building hardware [2008]
BS EN 81 Safety rules for the construction and
BS EN 1634-3 Smoke control test for door and
installation of lifts
shutter assemblies [2004]
BS EN 81-20 Lifts for the transport of persons
BS EN 1993-1-2 Eurocode 3. Design of steel
and goods. Passenger and goods passenger lifts
structures. General rules. Structural fire design [2005]
[2014]
BS ISO 3864-1 Graphical symbols. Safety colours and
BS EN 81-58 Examination and tests. Landing
safety signs. Design principles for safety signs and
doors fire resistance test [2018]
safety markings [2011]
BS EN 81-72 Particular applications for passenger
BS EN 12101 Smoke and heat control systems
and goods passenger lifts. Firefighters lifts [2015]
BS EN 12101-2 Natural smoke and heat exhaust
BS EN ISO 306 Plastics. Thermoplastic materials.
ventilators [2017]
Determination of Vicat softening temperature (VST)
[2013] BS EN 12101-3 Specification for powered smoke
and heat control ventilators (Fans) [2015]
BS EN 520 Gypsum plasterboards. Definitions,
requirements and test methods [2004 + A1 2009] BS EN 12101-6 Specification for pressure
differential systems. Kits [2005]
BS EN 1125 Building hardware. Panic exit devices
operated by a horizontal bar, for use on escape BS EN 12845 Fixed firefighting systems. Automatic
routes. Requirements and test methods [2008] sprinkler systems. Design, installation and
maintenance [2015]
BS EN 1155 Building hardware. Electrically powered
hold-open devices for swing doors. Requirements BS EN 13238 Reaction to fire tests for building
and test methods [1997] products. Conditioning procedures and general rules
for selection of substrates [2010]
184 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 197 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
F
BS EN 13501 Fire classification of construction British Standards
products and building elements
BS EN 13501-1 Classification using data from Effective until 1 September 2029 – deleted by
reaction to fire tests [2018] 2029 amendments
BS EN 13501-2 Classification using data from fire BS 476 Fire tests on building materials and
resistance tests, excluding ventilation services structures
[2016]
BS 476-8 Test methods and criteria for the fire
BS EN 13501-3 Classification using data from resistance of elements of building construction
fire resistance tests on products and elements [1972]
used in building service installations: fire resisting
BS 476-20 Method for determination of the fire
ducts and fire dampers [2005 + A1 2009]
resistance of elements of construction (general
BS EN 13501-4 Classification using data from principles) [1987]
fire resistance tests on components of smoke
BS 476-21 Methods for determination of the
control systems [2016]
fire resistance of loadbearing elements of
BS EN 13501-5 Classification using data from construction [1987]
external fire exposure to roof tests [2016]
BS 476-22 Methods for determination of the
BS EN 14306 Thermal insulation products for fire resistance of non-loadbearing elements of
building equipment and industrial installations. construction [1987]
Factory made calcium silicate (CS) products.
BS 476-23 Methods for determination of
Specification [2015]
the contribution of components to the fire
BS EN 14604 Smoke alarm devices [2005] resistance of a structure [1987]
BS EN 15102 Decorative wall coverings. Roll and BS 476-24 Method for determination of the fire
panel form [2007 + A1 2011] resistance of ventilation ducts [1987]
BS EN 15650 Ventilation for buildings. Fire dampers BS 476-31.1 Methods for measuring smoke
[2010] penetration through doorsets and shutter
assemblies. Method of measurement under
BS EN 15725 Extended application reports on the fire
ambient temperature conditions [1983]
performance of construction products and building
elements [2010] BS 2782-0 Methods of testing. Plastics. Introduction
[2011]
BS EN 50200 Method of test for resistance to fire
of unprotected small cables for use in emergency BS 3251 Specification. Indicator plates for fire
circuits [2015] hydrants and emergency water supplies [1976]
BS 4422 Fire. Vocabulary [2005]
BS 4514 Unplasticized PVC soil and ventilating pipes
of 82.4mm minimum mean outside diameter, and
fittings and accessories of 82.4mm and of other
sizes. Specification [2001]
BS 5255 Specification for thermoplastics waste pipe
and fittings [1989]
BS 5266-1 Emergency lighting. Code of practice for
the emergency lighting of premises [2016]
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 185
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 198 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
F
BS 5395-2 Stairs, ladders and walkways. Code of BS 7157 Method of test for ignitability of fabrics
practice for the design of helical and spiral stairs used in the construction of large tented structures
[1984] [1989]
BS 5438 Methods of test for flammability of textile BS 7273 Code of practice for the operation of fire
fabrics when subjected to a small igniting flame protection measures
applied to the face or bottom edge of vertically
BS 7273-4 Actuation of release mechanisms for
oriented specimens [1989]
doors [2015]
BS 5446-2 Fire detection and fire alarm devices for
BS 7346-7 Components for smoke and heat
dwellings. Specification for heat alarms [2003]
control systems. Code of practice on functional
BS 5499 Graphical symbols and signs recommendations and calculation methods for
smoke and heat control systems for covered car
BS 5499-4 Safety signs. Code of practice for
parks [2013]
escape route signing [2013]
BS 7974 Application of fire safety engineering
BS 5499-5 Safety signs, including fire safety signs.
principles to the design of buildings. Code of
Signs with specific safety meanings [2002]
practice [2019]
BS 5839 Fire detection and fire alarm systems for
BS 8214 Timber-based fire door assemblies. Code of
buildings
practice [2016]
BS 5839-1 Code of practice for system design,
BS 8313 Code of practice for accommodation of
installation, commissioning and maintenance of
building services in ducts [1997]
systems in non-domestic premises [2017]
BS 8414 Fire performance of external cladding systems
BS 5839-2 Specification for manual call points
[1983] BS 8414-1 Test method for non-loadbearing
external cladding systems applied to the
BS 5839-3 Specification for automatic release
masonry face of a building [2015 + A1 2017]
mechanisms for certain fire protection
equipment [1988] BS 8414-2 Test method for non-loadbearing
external cladding systems fixed to and
BS 5839-6 Code of practice for the design,
supported by a structural steel frame [2015 + A1
installation, commissioning and maintenance of
2017]
fire detection and fire alarm systems in domestic
premises [2019] BS 8519 Selection and installation of fire-resistant
power and control cable systems for life safety and
BS 5839-8 Code of practice for the design,
fire-fighting applications. Code of practice [2010]
installation, commissioning and maintenance of
voice alarm systems [2013] BS 9251 Fire sprinkler systems for domestic and
residential occupancies. Code of practice [2021].
BS 5839-9 Code of practice for the design,
installation, commissioning and maintenance of BS 9252 Components for residential sprinkler
emergency voice communication systems [2011] systems. Specification and test methods for
residential sprinklers [2011]
BS 5867-2 Fabrics for curtains and drapes.
Flammability requirements. Specification [2008] BS 9990 Non automatic fire-fighting systems in
buildings. Code of practice [2015]
BS 5906 Waste management in buildings. Code of
practice [2005] BS 9991 Fire safety in the design, management and
use of residential buildings. Code of practice [2015]
BS 9999 Fire safety in the design, management and
use of buildings. Code of practice [2017]
186 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 199 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
G
Appendix G: Documents referred to
Legislation Other documents
(available via www.legislation.gov.uk)
Publications
Building Safety Act 2022
Association for Specialist Fire Protection (ASFP)
Education Act 1996
(www.asfp.org.uk)
Gas Safety (Installation and Use) Regulations 1998 (SI ASFP Red Book – Fire-Stopping: Linear Joint Seals,
1998/2451) Penetration Seals and Cavity Barriers,
Lifts Regulations 1997 (SI 1997/831) Fourth Edition
Pipelines Safety Regulations 1996 (SI 1996/825) ASFP Grey Book – Volume 1: Fire Dampers
(European Standards), Second Edition
Prison Act 1952
Effective until 1 September 2029
Safety of Sports Grounds Act 1975
Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 ASFP Blue Book British Standard version – Fire
(SI 2005/1541)
Resisting Ductwork, Tested to BS 476 Part 24,
Third Edition
Commission Decision 2000/367/EC of 3 May 2000
implementing Council Directive 89/106/EEC ASFP Blue Book European version – Fire Resisting
Ductwork, Classified to BS EN 13501 Parts 3 and 4,
Commission Decision 2000/553/EC of 6 September
First Edition
2000 implementing Council Directive 89/106/EEC
Ensuring Best Practice for Passive Fire Protection in
European Parliament and Council Directive 95/16/EC
Buildings, Second Edition [2014]
Building Research Establishment Limited (BRE)
(www.bre.co.uk)
BRE report (BR 135) Fire Performance of External
Thermal Insulation for Walls of Multi-storey
Buildings, Third Edition [2013]
BRE report (BR 187) External Fire Spread: Building
Separation and Boundary Distances, Second
Edition [2014]
BRE Digest 208 Increasing the Fire Resistance of
Existing Timber Floors [1988]
BRE report (BR 274) Fire Safety of PTFE-based
Materials Used in Buildings [1994]
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 187
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 200 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
G
Department for Communities and Local Health and Safety Executive (HSE)
Government (www.hse.gov.uk)
(www.gov.uk/government/publications/fire-
Safety Signs and Signals: The Health and Safety
performance-of-green-roofs-and-walls)
Regulations 1996. Guidance on Regulations, L64
Fire Performance of Green Roofs and Walls [2013] [2015]
Department for Education HM Prison and Probation Service (HMPPS)
(www.dfes.gov.uk) (www.hmppsintranet.org.uk/uploads/
HMPPSFireSafetyDesignGuide.pdf)
Building Bulletin (BB) 100: Design for Fire Safety in
Schools [2007] Custodial Premises Fire Safety Design Guide
Department of Health Passive Fire Protection Forum (PFPF)
(www.dh.gov.uk) (https://asfp.org.uk/page/Publicationslist)
Health Technical Memorandum (HTM) 05-02: Guide to Undertaking Technical Assessments of the
Firecode. Guidance in Support of Functional Fire Performance of Construction Products Based
Provisions (Fire Safety in the Design of Healthcare on the Fire Test Evidence [2021]
Premises) [2015]
Sports Grounds Safety Authority
HTM 88: Guide to Fire Precautions in NHS Housing (https://sgsa.org.uk/)
in the Community for Mentally Handicapped (or
Guide to Safety at Sports Grounds [2007]
Mentally Ill) People
Steel Construction Institute (SCI)
Door and Hardware Federation (DHF) and Guild
(https://steel-sci.com)
of Architectural Ironmongers (GAI)
(www.firecode.org.uk) SCI Publication P288 Fire Safe Design: A New
Approach to Multi-storey Steel-framed Buildings,
Hardware for Fire and Escape Doors [2012]
Second Edition [2006]
Door and Shutter Manufacturers’ Association
SCI Publication P313 Single Storey Steel Framed
(DSMA)
Buildings in Fire Boundary Conditions [2002]
(www.dhfonline.org.uk)
Code of Practice for Fire Resisting Metal Doorsets Timber Research and Development Associations
[2010] (TRADA)
(www.trada.co.uk)
Fire Protection Association (FPA)
Timber Fire Resisting Doorsets: Maintaining
(www.thefpa.co.uk)
Performance under the New European Test
RISCAuthority Design Guide for the Fire Protection Standard [2002]
of Buildings [2005]
Football Licensing Authority
(www.flaweb.org.uk/home.php)
Concourses [2006]
Glass and Glazing Federation (GGF)
(www.ggf.org.uk)
A Guide to Best Practice in the Specification and
Use of Fire-resistant Glazed Systems [2011]
188 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 201 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Index
A Appliance ventilation ducts
Defnition Appendix A
Access control Openings in compartment walls or foors 8.31,
Efect on escape routes 2.8 10.23
Access for fre service Approved documents page i
See Fire service facilities Architraves
Accessibility 0.8 Defnition of walls and ceilings 6.3, 6.6
See also Disabled people Area measurement Diagram D3
Access rooms Art galleries
Defnition Appendix A Floor space factors Table D1
Means of escape from inner rooms 2.11, Artifcial lighting
Diagram 2.3 See Escape lighting
Accreditation Assembly and recreation purpose group 0.13
Installers page iii, 1.16, Appendix B5 Compartmentation 8.11
Air changes Counting number of storeys Diagram D5
See Ventilation Escape routes
Air conditioning 10.6–10.11 Door fastenings 5.9
See also Ventilation Escape lighting Table 5.1
Air exhaust terminals 10.6 External escape stairs 3.31, 3.32
Air supported structures 6.9 Minimum width of escape stairs 3.16, Table 3.1
Aisles Single escape routes 2.6
Fixed seating 5.19 External walls 13.1
Alarm systems Fire doors Table C1
See Fire detection and alarm systems; Voice alarm Firefghting shafts 17.6
systems Fire resistance of external walls Table 12.1
Alternative approaches 0.9–0.19 Fixed seating spacing 2.20
Alternative escape routes Floor space factors Table D1
Defnition Appendix A Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.27
Horizontal escape 2.3–2.5, 2.10, Diagram 2.2 Maximum dimensions of building or
Small premises 4.6 compartment Table 8.1
Sub-division of corridors 2.26–2.27, 9.6 Means of escape
Vertical escape 3.3 Simultaneous evacuation 3.16
Alternative exits 2.3–2.5 Travel distance limitations Table 2.1
Defnition Appendix A Minimum periods of fre resistance Table B2
Divided corridors Table C1 Purpose groups Table 0.1
Fire doors Table C1 Space separation 13.1
Amusement arcades Acceptable unprotected areas 13.20
Floor space factors Table D1 Notional boundaries 13.5
Ancillary accommodation Small buildings or compartments Table 13.1
Compartmentation 8.12 Sprinkler systems 8.14
Escape routes 2.38, 2.44 Atria
Fire resisting construction Table B1 Compartmentation 8.13, 8.31
Residential care homes 2.44, Table C1 Defnition Appendix A
Shop and commercial purpose group 0.21 Fire safety measures 0.16
Lift installations 5.36
Space separation 13.23
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 189
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 202 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Auditoria Beams
See Assembly and recreation purpose group Fire resistance 7.1, 8.24, Table B1
Automated storage systems Timber, in compartment walls 8.16
See Storage and other non-residential Bedroom corridors
Automatic doors Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1
Closing methods Appendix C6 Uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes
Escape routes 5.15 Table B3
See also Automatic release mechanisms; Self- Bedrooms
closing devices Floor space factors Table D1
Automatic fre dampers Hotels door locks 5.7
See Fire dampers Inner rooms 2.11
Automatic fre detection and alarm systems Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1
See Fire detection and alarm systems Partitions and provision of cavity barriers 9.7, 9.18
Automatic release mechanisms Residential care homes 2.42–2.43, 2.45–2.46,
Automatic fre detection 1.6 Diagram 2.11
Defnition Appendix A See also Dormitories
Fire and smoke dampers 10.21 Bed‑sitting rooms
Fire safety signs Appendix C11 Floor space factors Table D1
Self-closing fre doors 2.15, Appendix C6 Betting ofces
See also Self-closing devices Floor space factors Table D1
Billiard rooms
B
Floor space factors Table D1
Bingo halls
Balconies 12.11
Floor space factors Table D1
Bars
Boiler rooms
Floor space factors Table D1
Location of fnal exits 5.24
Basement storeys
See also Plant rooms
Car parks 18.15
Bolts
Compartmentation 8.11
See Fastenings
Counting number of storeys Diagram D5
Boundaries 13.4–13.5
Defnition Appendix A
Defnition Appendix A
Escape stairs 3.12, 3.24, 3.40–3.41
See also Notional boundaries; Relevant
Added protection 3.34
boundaries; Separation distances
Capacity of stairs Table 3.2
Bridges
Single escape stairs 3.3
Fire service vehicle access route specifcation
Firefghting shafts 17.2–17.3, Diagram 17.2
Table 15.2
Fire resistance Appendix B26
British Standards Appendix F
Elements of structure 7.2, Table B2
Effective until 1 September 2029 –
Lift installations 5.38, 5.40
deleted by 2029 amendments
Means of escape
Escape routes clear of smoke vents 18.10 BS 476-20 to 24 Table B1
Final exits clear of smoke vents 5.24 BS 476-22 Appendix C1, Table C1
Simultaneous evacuation 3.16 BS 476-31.1 Table C1
Underground accommodation escape lighting
Table 5.1
Venting of heat and smoke 18.1–18.15
190 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 203 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
BS 2782-0 Appendix B12 BS EN 13501-1 Appendix B6
BS 3251 16.10 BS EN 13501-2 Appendix B21, Appendix B24,
BS 4514 10.5 Appendix C1, Table B1, Table C1
BS 5255 10.5 BS EN 13501-3 Appendix B21, Appendix B24,
BS 5266-1 5.27, 5.31 Table B1
BS 5395-2 3.27 BS EN 13501-4 Appendix B21, Appendix B24,
BS 5438 Appendix B12 Table B1
BS 5499-4 5.28 BS EN 13501-5 Appendix B15 to B17
BS 5499-5 Appendix C11 BS EN 14306 Appendix B9
BS 5839-1 1.7–1.10, 1.12, 1.15, 2.41, 3.21, 5.31, 7.7, 9.12, BS EN 15102 Table 6.1
10.22, 18.12 BS EN 15650 10.19–10.20
BS 5839-2 1.10 BS EN 15725 Appendix B4
BS 5839-3 10.21 BS EN 50200 5.30
BS 5839-8 1.11, 3.21 BS EN ISO 306 Appendix B10
BS 5839-9 3.7 BS ISO 3864-1 5.28
BS 5867-2 Appendix B12 Building
BS 5906 5.42 Defnition Appendix A
BS 7157 6.9 Building control body page ii
BS 7273 1.17 Defnition Appendix A
BS 7273-4 5.8 Building dimensions
BS 7346-7 11.5 Measurement methods Diagrams D2 to D6
BS 7974 0.19 Building footprint
BS 8214 Appendix C14 See Perimeter of building
BS 8313 8.38 Building Regulations 2010 pages i–ii
BS 8414-1 12.3 Buildings of architectural or historical interest
BS 8414-2 12.3 0.17
BS 8519 5.31 Building work page ii
BS 9251 Appendix E3, Appendix E4 Fire safety information 19.1
BS 9990 16.5, 16.11 Bulkheads
BS 9999 0.12, 0.13, 0.16, 1.14, 2.20, 3.16, 5.19, 5.32, 8.13, Smoke outlet shafts and ducts 18.13
8.31, 9.12, 13.23, 17.9, 17.11, 19.6, Table 3.1
C
BS EN 54-7 10.21
BS EN 54-11 1.10
Cables
BS EN 81-20 17.11
See Electrical wiring
BS EN 81-58 Appendix C1
Canopies Diagram 13.6
BS EN 81-72 17.11
Space separation 13.13–13.14
BS EN 520 Appendix B9
Capacity
BS EN 1125 5.9
See Occupant capacity
BS EN 1155 2.45
Care homes
BS EN 1366-8 11.5
See Residential care homes
BS EN 1634-1 Appendix C1, Appendix C4
Car parks
BS EN 1634-2 Appendix C1
Enclosed
BS EN 1634-3 Appendix C1, Table C1
Lift installations 5.38
BS EN 1993-1-2 Table B2
Ventilation 11.3–11.5
BS EN 12101-2 Appendix D5
Escape lighting Table 5.1
BS EN 12101-3 11.5, 18.12
Extract ductwork 10.10
BS EN 12101-6 2.28, 3.15, Table C1
Fire resisting construction 11.2
BS EN 12845 Appendix E3, Appendix E5
Floor space factors Table D1
BS EN 13238 Appendix B8
Internal fre spread 11.1–11.5
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 191
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 204 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Maximum dimensions of building or Surfaces exposed 6.17
compartment Table 8.1 See also Suspended ceilings
Minimum periods of fre resistance Table B2 Central cores
Open-sided See Exits
Height of building or compartment 13.21 Central handrails
Space separation Table 13.1 Width of escape stairs 3.10–3.11
Ventilation 11.2 Certifcation
Recessed areas Diagram A1 Fire detection and alarm systems 1.16
Smoke venting from basement 18.15 Installers page iii
Cavities 9.1–9.18 Change of use
Cavity walls excluded from provisions for cavity Fire safety information 19.1
barriers Diagram 9.2 Material change of use 12.18
Defnition Appendix A Chimneys
Fire resisting ceilings 6.7, 9.10, Diagram 9.3 Openings in compartment walls or foors 8.31
Maximum dimensions 9.9–9.11, Table 9.1 Chutes
See also Cavity barriers; Cavity walls See Refuse chutes
Cavity barriers Circulation spaces
Cavity walls excluded Diagram 9.2 Defnition Appendix A
Construction and fxings 9.13–9.16 Glazing external windows with thermoplastic
Defnition Appendix A materials 6.14
Double-skinned insulated roof sheeting Separating circulation routes from stairways 2.15
Diagram 9.4 Wall and ceiling linings Table 6.1
External walls 12.9–12.10 See also Corridors; Lobbies; Stairs
Fire doors Table C1 Cladding
Fire resistance Table B1 Cavities 9.10
Floor or roof cavities 6.7, 9.9–9.11 External wall construction 12.6–12.7, 12.12–12.13,
Junctions with compartment foors and walls 9.3 12.22, Table 12.1
Materials 9.14 Cavity barriers 12.9–12.10
Maximum dimensions 9.9–9.11 Cloakrooms
Openings 9.14 Protected stairways 3.38
Provision 9.2, Diagram 9.1 Clubs
Sub-division of corridors 2.27, Diagram 2.9 Floor space factors Table D1
Cavity walls Codes of practice Appendix G
Excluded from provisions for cavity barriers Collapse
Diagram 9.2 Resistance to Appendix B18
Junctions with compartment foors and walls 9.3 See also Integrity
See also Insulation (thermal) Columns
Ceilings Fire resistance 7.1, Table B1
Cavities 9.10–9.11, Diagram 9.3 Portal frames 13.16
Defnition 6.5, Appendix A Combustibility of external surface materials
Enclosure of corridors by partitions 2.25 12.3–12.22
Fire resistance Table B1 Unprotected area 13.7, Diagram 13.4
Fire resisting 6.7, 9.10, Diagram 9.3 Commercial
Lighting difusers that form part of 6.16–6.17, See Shop and commercial purpose group
Diagram 6.1 Committee rooms
Linings 6.5–6.6 Floor space factors Table D1
Stretched skin 6.18 Common corridors
Sub-division of corridors 2.27 Storeys divided into diferent occupancies 2.17
192 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 205 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Common escape routes Nominal internal diameter of pipes passing
Mixed use buildings 3.2 through Table 10.1
See also Common corridors Provision 8.2–8.3
Common loadbearing elements Refuges Diagram 3.1
See Elements of structure Unsuitability of cavity barriers 9.4
Common rooms Compliance page i
Floor space factors Table D1 Concealed spaces
Communication systems See Cavities
Emergency voice communication (EVC) for Concourses
evacuation from refuges 3.7 Floor space factors Table D1
Phased evacuation 3.21 Conduits for cables
Voice alarm systems 1.11, 3.21 Openings passing through a separating element
Compartmentation 8.1–8.39, Diagram 8.1 9.17, 10.24
Acceptable unprotected area 13.20, Table 13.1 Conference rooms
Basements 8.11 Floor space factors Table D1
Smoke venting 18.2 Conservatories
Defnition Appendix A Measuring foor area Diagram D3
Maximum dimensions Table 8.1 Plastic roofights Tables 14.2 to 14.3
Measuring areas Diagram D3 Control rooms
Progressive horizontal evacuation 2.35–2.36 Escape lighting Table 5.1
Protection of lift installations 5.35 Cooking facilities
Space separation 13.3 See Kitchens
Steel framed buildings 8.24 Corridors 2.24–2.28
Compartment foors Door opening 5.13
Construction 8.15–8.29, Diagram 8.1 Escape lighting Table 5.1
Junction with walls 8.22–8.24 Fire doors Table C1
Openings 8.31 Glazed screen to protected shafts 8.34,
Defnition Appendix A Diagram 8.4
Fire doors in Table C1 Subdivision 2.26–2.27
Fire resistance Table B1 Cavity barriers Diagram 2.9
Flues and ducts passing through 10.23, Dead ends 2.28, Diagram 2.10
Diagram 10.4 Vision panels in doors 5.14
Nominal internal diameter of pipes passing See also Bedroom corridors; Common corridors;
through Table 10.1 Protected corridors
Phased evacuation 3.21 Cover moulds
Provision 8.2–8.3, Diagram 8.1 Defnition of walls and ceilings 6.3, 6.6
Compartment walls Diagram 8.1 Crush halls
Between buildings 8.18 Floor space factors Table D1
Construction 8.15–8.29 Cubic capacity
Junction with other walls 8.22–8.24 Measurement Diagram D2
Junction with roof 8.25–8.29, Diagram 8.2 Cupboards
Openings 8.30–8.31 Protected stairways 3.38
Defnition Appendix A
D
Fire doors in Table C1
Fire resistance Table B1
Dance foors/halls
Flues and ducts passing through 10.23,
Floor space factors Table D1
Diagram 10.4
Dead ends
Maximum door openings Appendix C8
Corridors 2.24, 2.28, Diagram 2.10
Fire doors Table C1
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 193
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 206 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Defnition Appendix A Vision panels 5.14
Fire service vehicle access route 15.10, Diagram 15.3 Width measurement Appendix D4, Diagram D1
Travel distance Diagram 2.1 See also Automatic doors; Fire doorsets
Uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes Dormitories
Table B3 Floor space factors Table D1
Diferent occupancies/uses Regulation 7 (building materials) 12.15
See Mixed use; Separate occupancies/uses Double‑skinned insulated roof sheeting
Dining rooms Cavity barriers 9.8, Diagram 9.4
Floor space factors Table D1 Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.28,
Direct distances Diagram 8.2
Defnition Appendix A Drainage pipes
Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1 Enclosed Table B1
Disabled people Maximum nominal internal diameter 10.4, Table
Inclusive design 0.8 10.1
Means of escape Dry mains
Evacuation lifts 5.33 See Fire mains
Final exits 5.22 Ducts
Phased evacuation 3.21 Fire resistance Table B1
Ramps and sloping foors 5.18–5.19 Openings
Refuges for wheelchair users 3.4–3.8, Diagrams In cavity barriers 9.17
3.1 to 3.2 In compartment walls or foors 8.31, 10.23
Travel distance limitations Table 2.1 Protection 10.6–10.11, 10.24
Vision panels in doors 5.14 Protected shafts 8.33
Warnings for hearing impaired people 1.15 Smoke vents 18.13
See also Residential care homes See also Flues; Ventilation ducts
Discounting of stairs 3.14–3.15 Dwellings
Added protection 3.34 Defnition Appendix A
Tall buildings 3.20 See also Residential (other) purpose group;
Discounting of storey exits 2.21 Residential use
Doors and doorways
E
Amount of opening 5.12
Dead end corridors Diagram 2.10
Eaves
Defnition of walls and ceilings 6.3, 6.6
Roof measurements Diagram D3
Direction of opening 5.11
Educational buildings 0.14
Escape routes 5.6–5.15
Electrical circuits
External escape stairs 3.32
See Protected power circuits
Headroom 5.16
Electrically powered locks 5.8
Pressurised 2.28
Electrical wiring
Exit signs 5.28
Cavities 9.12
Fastenings 5.7–5.10
Openings for 9.17, 10.24
Fire resistance 5.3, 5.5
Protected circuits 5.29–5.30
Fire service access 15.3
See also Power supply
Openings in cavity barriers 9.14
Electricity generator rooms
Openings in compartment walls or foors 8.30
Escape lighting Table 5.1
Openings in enclosure to protected shaft 8.39
See also Plant rooms
Separation of circulation routes from stairways
Elements of structure
2.15
Defnition Appendix A
Subdivision of corridors 2.26
Fire resistance 7.1–7.5, Appendix B25, Table B1
194 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 207 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Part of more than one building or compartment Width measurement Appendix D4
Appendix B25 See also Alternative escape routes; Horizontal
Standards Appendix B21 escape; Protected escape routes; Vertical
Emergency control rooms escape
Escape lighting Table 5.1 Escape stairs 3.40–3.41
Emergency lighting Added protection for phased evacuation 3.34
Defnition Appendix A Basement storeys 3.40–3.41, Table 3.2
See also Escape lighting Construction 3.24–3.25
Emergency voice communication (EVC) 3.7 Discounting of stairs 3.14–3.15
Enclosed car parks Door opening onto 5.13
See Car parks Fire resisting construction 3.24
Enclosure Helical and spiral 3.27
Corridors Lighting 5.25–5.27, Table 5.1
Not protected corridors 2.25 Minimum width 3.10–3.13, Tables 3.1 to 3.2
Sub-division 2.27, Diagram 2.9 Number 3.2–3.3
Escape stairs 3.23 Phased evacuation 3.22, 3.34
Fire resistance 5.2, Table B1 Capacity Table 3.3
See also Fire resisting construction; Protected Simultaneous evacuation
escape routes Capacity 3.16–3.17, Table 3.2
Energy efciency requirements page ii Unprotected 3.23
Enquiry ofces See also External escape stairs; Protected
Protected stairways 3.38 stairways
Escalators European Standards Appendix F
Escape routes in open spatial planning 2.13 See also British Standards BS EN
Protected shafts 8.32 Evacuation
Escape lighting 5.25–5.27, Table 5.1 Residential care homes 2.34
Defnition Appendix A Simultaneous 1.13, 3.16–3.17
Escape routes See also Escape routes; Phased evacuation;
Clear of building 5.21 Progressive horizontal evacuation
Defnition Appendix A Evacuation lifts 5.32–5.33
Doors on 5.6–5.15 Defnition Appendix A
Fire doors Table C1 For disabled people 5.33
Floors 5.17–5.19 Identifcation 3.8
Headroom 5.16 Protected lobbies 3.21
Helical stairs, spiral stairs and fxed ladders 3.27 Exhaust terminals
Lifts prejudicing 5.34 Mechanical ventilation and air conditioning
Number 2.3–2.5, 2.9, Table 2.2 systems 10.6
Single escape route acceptability 2.6–2.7 Exhibition halls
Small premises 2.6, 4.6 Floor space factors Table D1
Ramps and sloping foors 5.18–5.19 Existing buildings
Single steps 3.26 Building work page ii
Siting refuse storage chambers 5.45 See also Buildings of architectural or historical
Siting smoke vents 18.10 interest
Small premises 4.6 Exit passageways
Uninsulated glazed elements on Table B3 Defnition Appendix A
Ventilation 3.35 Exits
Width 2.18–2.20 Central core 2.12, Diagram 2.4
Relative to fnal exit 5.20 Discounting of exits 2.21
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 195
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 208 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Width 2.18–2.20, Table 2.3 Defnition Appendix A
See also Alternative exits; Final exits; Storey exits Merging fows Diagram 2.6
Exit signs 5.28 Protected stairways 3.37
External escape 2.30–2.32 Siting access to refuse storage chambers 5.45
Escape over fat roofs 2.31–2.32 Width 2.23, 5.20
Fire resistance of adjacent wall 2.30 See also Alternative exits
External escape stairs 3.31–3.33 Fire and smoke dampers
Escape over fat roofs 3.33 Defnition Appendix A
Fire resistance of adjacent areas Diagram 3.4 Installation and specifcation 10.17–10.22
Fire resisting construction 3.32 Ventilation ducts 10.8, 10.12, 10.16
External fre spread Fire alarm systems
Between buildings 13.1–13.23 Defnition Appendix A
Over external walls 12.1–12.22 See also Fire detection and alarm systems
Requirement B4 page 91, 12.21 Fire dampers
Roof coverings 14.1–14.9 Defnition Appendix A
See also Separation distances Installation and specifcation 10.17–10.22
External stairs Openings in cavity barriers 9.17
See External escape stairs Ventilation ducts 10.12–10.16
External walls Fire detection and alarm systems 1.3–1.17
Adjacent to protected stairways 3.29–3.30 Automatic fre detection and alarm systems
Cavities 9.10 1.4–1.6
Combustibility 12.3–12.22 Activation of air extraction system 18.12
Construction 12.1–12.22 Activation of fre dampers 10.21
Defnition Appendix A Automatic operation of smoke vents 10.9
External escape stairs 3.30, Diagram 3.4 Inner rooms 2.11
External surfaces 12.5 Maximum dimensions of cavities 9.12
Facing a boundary 13.4–13.5 Mechanical ventilation and air conditioning
Fire resistance 12.2, Table 12.1, Table B1 systems 10.9
Green walls 12.8 Raised storage areas 7.7
Metal composite materials 12.12–12.13 Storeys divided into diferent occupancies 2.17
Protected shafts 8.39 Store rooms 5.46
Protected stairways 3.29–3.30, Diagram 3.3 Call points 1.10
Regulation 7 (building materials) 12.14–12.17 Categories 1.9
Solar shading devices 12.19–12.20 Design and installation 1.16–1.17
Specifed attachments 12.15–12.22 Interface with other systems 1.17
Unprotected areas 13.6–13.23, Diagram 13.4 Phased evacuation 1.13, 3.21
Extract ductwork Provision 1.1–1.2
Kitchens 10.10, 10.14 Requirement B1 page 8
Residential care homes 2.41
F
Staged alarm systems 1.13
Student accommodation 1.18
Factories
See also Voice alarm systems
See Industrial purpose group
Fire doorsets Table C1
Fastenings
Automatic closing methods Appendix C6
Doors on escape routes 5.7–5.10
Defnition Appendix A
Feature lifts
Divided corridors 2.26
Fire protection of lift installations 5.36
Hinges Appendix C10
Final exits 5.20–5.24
Clear of exhaust points 10.6
196 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 209 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Firefghting lifts 17.2–17.3, 17.11 Fire resistance Appendix B18–B24
Approach through frefghting lobby 17.9 Defnition Appendix A
Components of frefghting shaft Diagram 17.1 Discounting radiation through external walls 13.1
Defnition Appendix A Elements of structure 7.1–7.5, Appendix B21,
Firefghting lobbies Appendix B25
Approach to frefghting stair or lift 17.9 Tests by element Table B1
Components of frefghting shaft Diagram 17.1 External walls 12.1–12.13, Table 12.1
Defnition Appendix A Minimum periods by building type Table B2
Firefghting facilities 17.1 Fire resisting construction 7.1–7.5
Outlets from fre mains 16.4 Alternative escape routes 3.32
Firefghting shafts Ceilings 6.7, 9.10, Diagram 9.3
Components Diagram 17.1 Cavities 6.7, 9.10, Diagram 9.3
Defnition Appendix A Separation of bedrooms 9.7
Design and construction 17.9–17.11 Compartmentation 8.4, 8.15
Fire mains provision 16.2, 16.4, 17.10 Corridors 2.25
Fire resistance Table B1 Sub-division 2.27, Diagram 2.9
External walls 8.39 Cupboards 3.38
Protected stairways 3.23 Defnition Appendix A
Provision Diagram 17.2 External escape stairs 3.32, Diagram 3.4
Location 17.7–17.8, Diagram 17.3 Fire resistance Table B1
Number 17.2–17.6 Flat roof forming an escape route 2.32
Services passing through 17.9 Lift installations 5.34
Firefghting stairs Places of special fre hazard 8.7, 8.12
Access lobbies and corridors 3.34 Protected escape routes Diagram 10.2
Approach through frefghting lobby 17.9 Protected stairways Diagram 3.3
Components of frefghting shaft Diagram 17.1 Refuse chutes and rooms for refuse storage 5.43
Defnition Appendix A Shop store rooms 5.46
Fire mains outlets 16.4 Smoke outlet ducts and shafts 18.13–18.14, Diagram
Fire resisting construction 3.24 18.1
Use as escape stairs 3.20, 3.24 Ventilation ducts 10.12–10.13
Fire hydrants 16.8–16.11 See also Cavity barriers; Compartmentation;
Fire mains 16.1–16.7 Fire-stopping
Firefghting shafts 16.2, 16.4, 17.10, Diagram 17.1 Fire safety
Implications for fre vehicle access 15.4–15.6 Alternative approaches 0.9
Maximum hose distance 16.3, 17.8 Fire safety engineering 0.18–0.19
Private hydrants 16.8–16.11 Fire safety information 19.1–19.7
Fire penetration Regulation 38 page 126
Resistance to Appendix B18 Fire safety signs
Fire performance Exits 5.28
Classifcation and testing Appendix B1 to B9, Fire doorsets Appendix C11
Table C1 Fire‑separating elements
Minimum periods of fre resistance by purpose Defnition Appendix A
group Table B2 Fire separation
Reaction to fre Appendix B6 to B9 Adjoining protected stairways 3.37
Roofs Appendix B14 to B17 Between buildings 8.2, 8.18, 13.1–13.23
Fireplace surrounds See also Cavity barriers; Compartmentation;
Defnition of walls 6.3 Separation distances
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 197
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 210 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Fire service facilities Flexible membranes 6.9
Access to buildings for frefghting personnel Floor area
17.1–17.12 Methods of measurement Diagram D3
Building footprint and perimeter Diagram 15.1 Floor level
Fire mains 16.1–16.7 Change in relation to door swing 5.12
Requirement B5 page 110 Single step on escape routes 3.26
Vehicle access 15.1–15.10 Sloping foors 5.18–5.19
Access routes and hardstandings 15.7–15.10, Table Floors
15.2 Area measurement Diagram D3
Buildings ftted with fre mains 15.4–15.6, 16.3, Cavities 9.10
16.6 Elements of structure 7.3
Buildings not ftted with fre mains 15.1–15.3, Escape routes 5.17–5.19
Table 15.1 Fire resistance 7.1, Table B1
High reach fre appliance access to buildings Sloping 5.18
Diagram 15.2 See also Compartment foors
Turning facilities 15.10, Diagram 15.3 Floor space factors Table D1
Fire severity Appendix B19–B20 Flues
Fire spread Fire resistance Table B1
See External fre spread; Internal fre spread Openings for 8.31, 10.23, Diagram 10.4
Fire‑stopping 10.1, 10.24–10.29
G
Defnition Appendix A
Junction of compartment wall or foor with other
Galleries
walls 8.22
Ceilings 6.5
Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.25,
Counting storeys Diagram D5
Diagram 8.2
Defnition Appendix A
Junction with slates, tiles, corrugated sheeting or
Elements of structure 7.3, Appendix B25
similar 9.15
Fire resistance 7.1
Materials 10.25–10.27
Gangways
Pipe openings 10.4
Fixed seating 5.19
Fire suppression
Between fxed storage racking Table 2.3
See Sprinkler systems
Garages
Fire tests
See Car parks
See Fire performance
Gas appliances and meters
Fitted furniture
Protected stairways 3.38, 3.39
Defnition of walls 6.3
Gas service pipes
Fixed seating 5.19
Protected shafts 8.37
Spacing 2.20
Protected stairways 3.39
Fixings
Ventilation 8.38
Cavity barriers 9.16
Glazed screens
Flame spread
Protected shafts 8.34–8.35, Diagram 8.4
See External fre spread; Internal fre spread
Glazing
Flat roofs
Defnition of walls and ceilings 6.3, 6.6
Area measurement Diagram D3
In door not part of wall 6.2
Means of escape 2.31–2.32
Escape routes 5.4–5.5, Table B3
Measuring height Diagram D4
External escape stairs 3.32
Refuges 3.5
Fire resistance of glazed elements 5.4–5.5
Limitations on areas of uninsulated glazing
Table B3
198 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 211 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Protected shafts 8.34 High reach appliances
Safety 5.5 Fire service vehicle access 15.9
Thermoplastic materials 6.14, Appendix B11 Access route specifcation Diagram 15.2, Table
Unwired glass in roofights 14.8 15.2
Gradient Buildings not ftted with fre mains Table 15.1
Escape routes 5.18–5.19 Overhead obstructions 15.9, Diagram 15.2
Hardstandings Diagram 15.2 High risk
Green walls 12.8 See Places of special fre hazard
Group homes for mentally impaired/mentally Hinges
ill 0.11 Fire doors Appendix C10
Guarding Historic buildings
Flat roof forming escape route 2.32 See Buildings of architectural or historical interest
Route clear of the building 5.21 Homes
See Group homes for mentally impaired/mentally
H
ill; Residential care homes; Residential
(institutional) purpose group
Habitable rooms
Horizontal escape 2.1–2.46
Defnition Appendix A
Alternative escape routes 2.10, Diagram 2.2
Handicapped people
Exits in central core 2.12, Diagram 2.4
See Disabled people
Inner rooms 2.11, Diagram 2.3
Handrails
Number of escape routes and exits 2.3–2.5
Width of escape stairs 3.10–3.11
Minimum number 2.9, Table 2.2
Hardstandings
Single escape routes and exits 2.6–2.7
Fire service vehicles 15.7–15.8, Diagram 15.2
Open spatial planning 2.13, Diagram 2.5
Hardware
Residential care homes 2.33–2.40
Fire doors Appendix C15
Small premises 2.2, 4.1–4.6
See also Fastenings
Storeys divided into diferent occupancies 2.17
Hazard
Storeys divided into diferent uses 2.16
See Places of special fre hazard; Risk
Width of escape routes and exits 2.18–2.20,
Headroom
Table 2.3
Escape routes 5.16
See also Escape routes
Health and safety page 110, 0.8
Hose laying distance 16.3, 17.8, Diagram 17.3
Health care premises 0.10
Hospitals 0.10
Compartmentation 8.8
Regulation 7 (building materials) 12.15
See also Residential care homes; Residential
See also Health care premises
(institutional) purpose group
Hotels
Hearing impairment 1.15
Activation of fre and smoke dampers 10.22
Heat alarms
Bedroom doors 5.7
See Fire detection and alarm systems
See also Residential (other) purpose group
Heat and smoke outlets
Hydraulic lifts
See Smoke vents
Pipes for oil or gas in protected shafts 8.36
Heat radiation
Hydraulic platforms
Discounting 13.1
See High reach appliances
Height
Defnition Appendix A I
Measurement methods Diagram D4
Helical stairs Ignition susceptibility
Escape routes 3.27 External walls 12.1
Services 8.17
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 199
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 212 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Inclusive design 0.8 Structure 7.1–7.7
See also Disabled people Requirement B3 page 61
Industrial purpose group See also Cavity barriers; Compartmentation; Fire-
Ancillary accommodation 8.12 stopping
Compartmentation 8.11, 8.12 Internal linings
Escape routes Classifcation 6.1–6.12, Table 6.1
Lighting Table 5.1 Fire resistance Table B1
Single escape stairs 3.3 Protection of substrate Appendix B13
Travel distance limitations Table 2.1
J
Firefghting shafts 17.6
Maximum dimensions of building or
Joists
compartment Table 8.1
Timber, in compartment walls 8.16
Maximum dimensions of cavities Table 9.1
Junctions
Minimum periods of fre resistance Table B2
Cavity barriers 9.3
Purpose groups Table 0.1
Compartment wall or foor with other walls
Space separation
8.22–8.24
Acceptable unprotected area 13.20
Compartment wall with roof 8.25–8.29,
Permitted unprotected areas in small buildings
Diagram 8.2
or compartments Table 13.1
Roofs Table 14.1 K
Sprinkler systems 8.14
See also Storage and other non-residential Keys
Inner rooms See Security fastenings
Defnition Appendix A Kitchens
Horizontal escape 2.11, 2.16, Diagram 2.3 Extract ductwork 10.10
Installers Fire protection of lift installations 5.39
Certifcation and accreditation 1.16 Floor space factors Table D1
Institutional premises Small premises 4.2
See Residential (institutional) purpose group
L
Insulating core panels 6.11
Insulation performance Appendix B18, Table B1
Ladders
Fire doorsets Appendix C8
Means of escape 3.28
Insulation (thermal)
See also High reach appliances
Between double-skinned sheeting 9.8
Landings
Efect on fre performance Appendix B2
Areas adjacent to external stairs Diagram 3.4
External walls 12.6–12.7, 12.22
Door opening and efect on escape routes 5.12
Reaction to fre rating of pipe insulation 9.12
Escape stairs 3.24, 3.32
Integrity
Large and complex buildings
Compartment walls 8.24
Fire safety engineering 0.18–0.19
Fire doorsets Appendix C1, Table C1
Fire safety information 19.6–19.7
Resistance to fre penetration Appendix B18,
Protected power circuits 5.31
Table B1
Latches
Intercom system
See Fastenings
Phased evacuation 3.21
Legislation Appendix G
Internal fre spread
Libraries
Car parks 11.1–11.5
Floor space factors Table D1
Linings 6.1–6.18
Lifts
Requirement B2 page 54
Exits in central core 2.12
Fire doors forming part of enclosure Table C1
200 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 213 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Fire protection of installations 5.34–5.39 Malls
Lift doors Appendix C3 Fire protection of lift installations 5.36
Machine rooms 5.41 Floor space factors in shopping malls Table D1
Protected shafts 5.35 Shopping complexes 0.12
Containing pipes 8.36 Management of premises 0.6
Openings in enclosure 8.39 Mantle shelves
Use of protected stairways 3.38 Defnition of walls 6.3
Wall-climber or feature lifts 5.36 Materials and workmanship
See also Evacuation lifts; Firefghting lifts Certifcation schemes page iii
Lighting Regulation 7 pages 91–92, 12.14–12.17
See Escape lighting Means of escape
Lighting bridges Defnition Appendix A
See Galleries Requirement B1 page 8
Lighting difusers See also Escape routes; Horizontal escape;
Suspended ceilings 6.16–6.17, Diagram 6.1, Table 6.2 Vertical escape
Thermoplastic 6.17 Measurement
Fire resistance Appendix B11 Defnition Appendix A
Layout restrictions Diagrams 6.2 to 6.3 Measurement methods Appendix D
Use of space below Table 6.2 Building dimensions Diagrams D2 to D6
Linings Floor space factors Table D1
See Internal linings Occupant number Appendix D1 to D2
Live/work units Travel distance Appendix D3
Defnition Appendix A Width Appendix D4
Loadbearing capacity Mechanical ventilation
Defection of compartment walls 8.24 See Ventilation
Resistance to collapse Appendix B18, Table B1 Meeting rooms
Loadbearing elements of structure Floor space factors Table D1
See Elements of structure Metal composite materials 12.12–12.13
Lobbies Mixed use 0.20–0.22, 0.23–0.24, 3.2
Exit capacity 2.23 Compartment walls and foors 8.3
Exits in central core 2.12 Division of storeys 2.16
Glazed screen to protected shafts 8.34, Diagram Interpretation of purpose groups 0.21–0.22
8.4 Means of escape
Ventilation 3.35 Escape stairs 3.2–3.3
See also Firefghting lobbies; Protected lobbies Horizontal escape 2.5
Locks Multi‑storey buildings
See Fastenings Compartments 8.1–8.13
Lounges Horizontal escape 2.4
Fire protection of lift installations 5.39 Maximum foor area Table 8.1
Floor space factors Table D1 See also Tall buildings
M N
Machine rooms Natural ventilation
Lifts 5.41 See Ventilation
Maintenance Non‑residential buildings
Fire safety 0.6 Purpose groups Table 0.1
Main use Notional boundaries 13.5, Diagram 13.3
Purpose groups 0.22 Defnition Appendix A
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 201
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 214 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
O Open spatial planning
Awareness of fres 2.25
Occupancies Defnition Appendix A
See Mixed use; Separate occupancies/uses Escape lighting Table 5.1
Occupancy type Escape routes 2.13
Defnition Appendix A Fire protection of lift installations 5.36
Occupant number Minimum width of escape stairs 3.16
Horizontal escape 2.9, 2.11, 2.19, 2.23, Table 2.2 Other non‑residential
Inner rooms 2.11 See Storage and other non-residential purpose
Residential care homes 2.39 group
Small premises 4.2 Outbuildings
Measurement methods Appendix D1 to D2 Measuring foor area Diagram D3
Vertical escape Overhanging storey
Width of escape stairs 3.13, 3.22, Tables 3.2 to 3.3 See Perimeter of building
Ofces Overhead obstructions
Compartmentation 8.11 Access for high reach appliances 15.9, Diagram 15.2
Escape lighting Table 5.1
P
Floor space factors Table D1
Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.27
Panic fastenings 5.9
Maximum dimensions of building or
Partitions
compartment Table 8.1
Cavity barriers 9.14, 9.18
Maximum dimensions of cavities Table 9.1
Separation of bedrooms 9.7
Means of escape
Enclosure of corridors 2.25
Fire doors Table C1
Inner rooms 2.11
Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1
See also Walls
Single escape stairs 3.3
Pavement lights
Small premises 2.2, 4.4
Smoke vent outlet terminal 18.9
Minimum periods of fre resistance Table B2
Performance
Over shops 0.22
See Fire performance
Purpose groups Table 0.1
Perimeter of building
Space separation 13.20, Table 13.1
Defnition Appendix A
Sprinkler systems 8.14
Example of footprint and perimeter Diagram 15.1
Openable windows
Fire service vehicle access Table 15.1
See Windows
Phased evacuation 1.13
Opening characteristics
Alarm systems 1.13, 3.21
Doors and doorways 5.11–5.13
Disabled people 3.19
Openings
Escape stairs
Compartment walls or foors 8.31, 10.23, Diagram
Added protection 3.34
10.4
Minimum width 3.22, Table 3.3
Separating buildings or occupancies 8.30
Internal speech communication system 3.21
Minimising 10.24
Protected escape routes 3.21
Protected shafts 8.39
Tall buildings 3.19–3.20
Protecting 10.1–10.5
Picture rails
See also Cavity barriers; Doors and doorways;
Defnition of walls and ceilings 6.3, 6.6
Fire-stopping; Windows
Pipes
Open sided car parks
Cavity barriers 9.17
See Car parks
Defnition Appendix A
202 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 215 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Maximum nominal internal diameter 10.4, Table Podium
10.1 Fire resistance of areas near to external stairs
Oil and gas pipes in protected shafts 8.36–8.38 Diagram 3.4
Openings 10.2–10.5, 10.24, Diagram 10.1 Polycarbonates
Compartment walls or foors 8.30, 8.31 Roofights 14.7
Protected shafts 8.39 TP(a) rigid and TP(b) sheet Appendix B12
Reaction to fre rating of insulation 9.12 Portal frames
See also Gas service pipes Separation distances 13.16
Pitched roofs Power supply
Area measurement Diagram D3 Protected power circuits 5.29–5.31
Measuring height Diagram D4 For ventilation systems 11.5
Treated as wall or roof 13.15 Pressurisation
Places of special fre hazard Activation by fre detection system 1.6
Compartmentation 8.7 Stairs and corridors 2.28, 8.36
Defnition Appendix A Prisons 0.15
Escape stairs 3.35 Private hydrants 16.8–16.11
Fire resisting construction 8.12 Progressive horizontal evacuation
Inner rooms 2.11 Residential care homes 2.35–2.40, Diagram 2.11
Lift installations 5.39 Projecting upper storey
Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1 See Overhead obstructions
Small premises 4.1 Property protection 0.7
Smoke vents 18.7 Protected circuits 5.29–5.31
Plant rooms Defnition Appendix A
Extract ductwork 10.10 Protected corridors 2.24
Fixed ladders 3.28 Added protection for escape stairs 3.34
Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1 Dead end corridors Diagram 2.10
See also Boiler rooms; Places of special fre hazard Defnition Appendix A
Plasterboard Extension beyond a protected stairway Diagram 2.8
Test substrates Appendix B9 Fire doors Table C1
Plastics Fire protection of lift installations 5.38–5.39
Lighting difusers Fire resistance Table B1
Forming part of a ceiling 6.16–6.17 Phased evacuation 3.21
Layout restrictions Diagrams 6.2 to 6.3 Provision 3.34
Suspended ceilings 6.17, Appendix B11, Table 6.2 Recessed areas Diagram 2.7
Roofights 6.8, 14.5–14.7 Refuges for wheelchair users 3.5–3.6
Layout restrictions Diagram 6.2 Storeys divided into diferent occupancies 2.17
Limitations on spacing and size Diagram 6.2, Uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes
Diagram 14.1 Table B3
Limitations on use and boundary distance Protected escape routes
Tables 14.2 to 14.3 Cavity barriers 9.5
Spacing and size Diagram 6.2 Corridors 2.24
See also Thermoplastic materials Dead ends Diagram 2.10
Platform foors Discounting of stairs 3.15
Defnition Appendix A Ductwork passing through Diagram 10.2
Exclusions from elements of structure 7.3 Escape stair needing added protection 3.34
Plenum Phased evacuation 3.21
Maximum dimensions of cavities 9.12 Protection and compartmentation 8.12
Storeys divided into diferent occupancies 2.17
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 203
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 216 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Ventilation ducts 10.8, 10.15–10.16 Roofights of thermoplastic materials 6.15
Protected lobbies Separation from adjoining 3.37
Defnition Appendix A Separation of circulation routes from stairways
Discounting of stairs 3.15 2.15
Escape stairs 3.34 Thermoplastic lighting difusers in ceilings 6.17
Fire doors Table C1 Uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes
Fire resistance Table B1 Table B3
Lift installations 5.37–5.39 Use of space below difusers or roofights
Phased evacuation 3.21 Table 6.2
Provision 3.34–3.35 Use of space within 3.38
Refuges for wheelchair users 3.5–3.6 Ventilation ducts 10.7
Refuse chutes and rooms for refuse storage 5.43 Vertical escape 3.23–3.41
Storey exits 2.14 Protective barriers
Uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes Flat roof forming escape route 2.32
Table B3 PTFE‑based materials 6.10
Ventilation 5.44 Public address system 1.11
Protected power circuits 5.29–5.30 Publications (excluding BSI and European
Defnition Appendix A Standards) Appendix G
Protected shafts 8.6, 8.32–8.39, Diagram 8.3 Pumping appliances
Construction 8.33 Dry fre mains 15.4–15.5
Defnition Appendix A Fire service vehicle access 15.1
External wall of stairs in 8.39, Diagram 13.5 Access route specifcation Table 15.2
Fire doors Table C1 Buildings not ftted with fre mains Table 15.1
Fire resistance 8.33, 8.39, Table B1 Replenishing wet fre mains 15.5
Glazed screens 8.34–8.35, Diagram 8.4 Pumps
Lift installations 5.35 Sprinkler systems Appendix E6
Openings 8.39 Purpose groups 0.20–0.22
Pipes in 10.2 Classifcation Table 0.1
Oil or gas pipes 8.36–8.37 Defnition Appendix A
Protected stairways 3.23 Minimum periods of fre resistance by purpose
Provision 8.32 group Table B2
Ventilating ducts in 8.36 PVC
Ventilation of shafts conveying gas 8.38 See uPVC
See also Firefghting shafts
Q
Protected stairways
Defnition Appendix A
Queueing areas
Escape stairs 3.23–3.41
Floor space factors Table D1
Exits from 3.36
Exits in central core Diagram 2.4 R
External walls adjacent to 3.29–3.30, 13.10, 13.12,
Diagram 3.3 Racking
Fire doors Table C1 See Storage and other non-residential purpose
Fire resistance Table B1 group
Lift installations 5.34, 5.41 Radiation
Location of 17.7 See Heat radiation
Pipes and ducts in 8.36–8.37 Rafters
Refuges for wheelchair users 3.5–3.6, Diagram 3.2 Portal frames 13.16
Refuse chutes and storage 5.43 Timber, in compartment walls 8.16
204 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 217 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Raised storage Progressive horizontal evacuation 2.35–2.40,
Fire resistance 7.6–7.7 Diagram 2.11
See also Storage and other non-residential Travel distance 2.37
purpose group Regulation 7 (building materials) 12.15
Ramps Self-closing devices 2.45
Escape routes 5.18–5.19 Sprinkler systems 2.46
Reading rooms Residential (institutional) purpose group
Floor space factors Table D1 Activation of fre and smoke dampers 10.22
Reception desk Automatic fre detection and alarm systems 1.4
Protected stairways 3.38 Compartmentation 8.8–8.9
Recirculating air distribution systems Maximum dimensions of cavities Table 9.1
Maximum dimensions of cavities 9.12 Means of escape
Mechanical ventilation 10.9 Care homes 2.33–2.46, Diagram 2.11
See also Air conditioning External escape stairs 3.31
Recreation Inner rooms 2.11
See Assembly and recreation purpose group Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1
Refuges Single escape routes and exits 2.6
Means of escape for disabled 3.4–3.8, Diagrams Minimum periods of fre resistance Table B2
3.1 to 3.2 Minimum width of escape stairs 3.16, Table 3.1
Refuse chutes 5.42–5.45 Partitions and provision of cavity barriers 9.7, 9.18
Openings for 8.31 Purpose groups Table 0.1
Protected shafts 8.32 Regulation 7 (building materials) 12.15
Refuse hoppers 5.42 Uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes
Refuse storage chambers 5.42–5.45 Table B3
Access 5.44 Residential (other) purpose group
Location of fnal exits 5.45 Acceptable unprotected area
Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 Calculation 13.18–13.19, Table 13.1
page 126, 0.6 Automatic fre detection and alarm systems 1.4
Relevant boundaries 13.5, Diagram 13.2 Compartmentation 8.10
Acceptable unprotected areas 13.17 Fire doors Table C1
Defnition Appendix A Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.27
External walls 1000mm or more from relevant Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1
boundary 13.9 Maximum dimensions of cavities Table 9.1
External walls within 1000mm of relevant Minimum periods of fre resistance Table B2
boundary 13.8 Minimum width of escape stairs 3.16
Portal frame building near boundary 13.16 Partitions and provision of cavity barriers 9.7, 9.18
Separation distances for roof 14.3, Table 14.1 Purpose groups Table 0.1
Space separation for buildings ftted with Residential use
sprinklers 13.22 Escape lighting Table 5.1
Residential care homes Purpose groups Table 0.1
Ancillary accommodation Space separation 13.1
Escape routes 2.38 Notional boundaries 13.5
Bedrooms 2.42–2.43 Permitted unprotected areas 13.18–13.19, Table
Compartmentation 8.8–8.9 13.1
Fire detection and alarm systems 2.41 Wall and ceiling linings 6.4, Table 6.1
Horizontal escape 2.33–2.40 See also Residential (institutional) purpose group;
Occupant capacity 2.39 Residential (other) purpose group
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 205
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 218 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Restaurants Space separation 13.15, 14.3–14.9
Escape lighting Table 5.1 See also Flat roofs; Pitched roofs
Floor space factors Table D1 Roof space
Revolving doors Cavity barriers 9.9–9.10
Escape routes 5.15 Roof‑top plant
Rising fre mains Height of top storey in building Diagram D4,
See Fire mains Diagram D6
Risk Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1
Insurance 0.7 Rooms
See also Places of special fre hazard Defnition Appendix A
Rolling shutters 17.12, Appendix C9 Measuring foor area Diagram D3
Roof coverings
S
Cavities between insulated roof sheeting 9.8,
Diagram 9.4
Safety signs and signals
External fre spread 14.1–14.9
Fire doors Appendix C11
Separation distances for roofs Table 14.1
Sanitary accommodation
Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.25–
Protected shafts and stairways 3.38, 8.32
8.27, Diagram 8.2
Sanitary towel incinerators
Slates and tiles 9.15, Diagram 8.2
Protected stairways 3.38
Thatch and wood shingles 14.9
Schools 0.14
Roofights
Defnition Appendix A
Area measurement Diagram D3
Regulation 7 (building materials) 12.15
Defnition Appendix A
Seals
Defnition of ceilings 6.6
Pipes 10.3, 10.26
Fire resistance 6.8
Seating
Plastic 6.8, 6.15, 14.5–14.7
See Fixed seating
Fire resistance Appendix B11
Security
Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.26
Compatibility with escape 2.8, 5.7
Limitations on spacing and size Diagram 6.2,
See also Access control
Diagram 14.1
Security fastenings
Limitations on use and boundary distance Table
Doors on escape routes 5.7–5.8
14.2, Table 14.3
Self‑closing devices
Unwired glass 14.8
Defnition Appendix A
Use of space below Table 6.2
Fire doorsets Appendix C5 to C6
Roofs
Residential care homes 2.45
Area measurement Diagram D3
Self-closing fre doors 2.15
Elements of structure 7.3
Sub-divided corridors 2.26–2.28
Escape over 2.31–2.32, 3.33
See also Automatic release mechanisms
External escape stairs 3.32
Separated parts of buildings 8.19
Fire resistance of adjacent areas Diagram 3.4
Defnition Appendix A
Fire resistance Appendix B14–B17, Table B1
Separate occupancies/uses
Height measurement Diagram D4
Compartment walls and foors 8.11
Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.25–
Corridors 2.17
8.27, Diagram 8.2
Division of storeys 2.17
Roof-top plant
Escape routes 2.16–2.17
Height of top storey in building Diagram D4,
Openings in compartment walls 8.30
Diagram D6
Separation distances 13.4
Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1
Buildings with sprinkler systems 13.22
206 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 219 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Canopies 13.13–13.14, Diagram 13.6 Uninsulated glazed elements on escape routes
Compartment size 13.3 Table B3
Roofs 14.3–14.9, Table 14.1 Single steps
Unprotected areas which may be disregarded Escape routes 3.26
Diagram 13.5 Single storey buildings
Service openings Defnition Appendix A
See Openings Fire resistance of elements of structure 7.2,
Shafts Appendix B26, Table B2
Fire resisting construction for smoke outlet shafts Maximum foor area Table 8.1
18.13–18.14, Diagram 18.1 Storage areas 7.6
See also Firefghting shafts; Protected shafts; See also Portal frames; Sheltered housing
Smoke vents Site (of a building)
Sheltered housing Defnition Appendix A
Defnition Appendix A Skating rinks
Regulation 7 (building materials) 12.15 Floor space factors Table D1
Shop and commercial purpose group Skirtings
Ancillary accommodation 8.12 Defnition of walls 6.3
Ancillary use 0.21 Slates and tiles
Compartmentation 8.11–8.12 Fire stopping junctions 9.15, Diagram 8.2
Door fastenings on escape routes 5.9 Sleeping accommodation
Escape lighting Table 5.1 Activation of fre and smoke dampers 10.22
Firefghting shafts 17.6 Fire protection of lift installations 5.39
Floor space factors Table D1 See also Bedrooms; Dormitories
Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1 Sleeping galleries
Maximum dimensions of building or See Galleries
compartment Table 8.1 Sleeving for pipes 10.5, Diagram 10.1
Maximum dimensions of cavities Table 9.1 Slipperiness
Minimum periods of fre resistance Table B2 Floors of escape routes 3.32, 5.17
Purpose groups Table 0.1 Sloping foors
Shop front signs 12.22 Escape routes 5.18–5.19
Space separation See also Ramps
Acceptable unprotected areas 13.20, Table 13.1 Small premises 4.1–4.9
Sprinkler systems 8.14 Escape stairs 4.7–4.9
Store rooms 5.46 Enclosure 3.23
See also Small premises Single escape stairs 3.3, 4.7, Diagrams 4.1 to 4.3
Shopping complexes 0.12 Horizontal escape 2.2, 4.1–4.6
Signs Travel distance 4.6, Diagrams 4.1 to 4.3
See Exit signs; Fire safety signs Number of escape routes 2.6, 4.6
Simultaneous evacuation Smoke alarms
See Evacuation Defnition Appendix A
Single stair buildings See also Fire detection and alarm systems
Continuation of lift down to basement storey Smoke and fumes
5.40 Cavity above enclosed corridor 2.27, Diagram 2.9
Escape stairs 3.3, 3.24 Inhibition of smoke spread
Added protection for 3.34 Corridors 2.25–2.27
Lift machine room location 5.40 Retarding by sealing or fre-stopping 10.1
Travel distance in small premises Diagrams 4.1 to Smoke leakage of fre doors Appendix C1 to C2,
4.3 Table C1
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 207
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 220 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Smoke reservoirs 5.36 Staf rooms
Smoke detectors Floor space factors Table D1
See Fire detection and alarm systems Stage grids
Smoke vents See Galleries
Automatic operation 10.9 Stairs
Basement storeys 18.1–18.15 Width measurement Appendix D4
Final exits clear of 5.24 See also Escape stairs; Firefghting stairs;
Mechanical smoke extract 18.11–18.12 Protected stairways
Natural smoke outlets 18.5–18.10 Stallboard
Firefghting shafts 17.9 Smoke vent outlet terminal 18.9, Diagram 18.1
Fire resisting construction for outlet shafts Standard fre tests
18.13–18.14 See Fire performance
Free area Appendix D5, Diagram D7 Standing spectator areas
Outlet terminal 18.8–18.10 Floor space factors Table D1
Protected lobbies 3.35 Steel framed buildings
Solar shading devices 12.19–12.20 Compartments 8.24
Defnition Appendix A Portal frames 13.16
Space separation Steps (single)
See Separation distances Escape routes 3.26
Specifed attachments Storage
Defnition Appendix A Fire protection of lift installations 5.39
Spiral stairs Raised storage areas 7.6–7.7
Escape routes 3.27 Refuse storage 5.42–5.45
Sports grounds 0.13 In shops 5.46, 8.11
See also Assembly and recreation purpose group Storage and other non‑residential purpose group
Sprinkler systems Appendix E Automatic fre detection and alarm systems 1.5
Fire detection and alarm systems 1.3 Compartmentation 8.11
As a compensatory feature Appendix E4 Escape lighting Table 5.1
Discounting of stairs 3.14 Fire service vehicle access to buildings without
Efect on acceptable unprotected area 13.22 fre mains Table 15.1
Efect on minimum periods of fre resistance Floor space factors Table D1
Table B2 Limitations on travel distance Table 2.1
Maximum dimensions of building or Maximum dimensions of building or
compartment Table 8.1 compartment Table 8.1
Mechanical smoke extract 18.11 Maximum dimensions of cavities Table 9.1
Number and location of frefghting shafts 17.8 Minimum periods of fre resistance Table B2
Portal frames 13.16 Purpose groups Table 0.1
Provision 8.14, Appendix E2 to E4 Raised storage areas 7.7
Raised storage areas 7.7 Space separation
Residential care homes 2.46 Acceptable unprotected areas 13.20, Table 13.1
Space separation 13.22 Roofs Table 14.1
Tall buildings 3.21 Sprinkler systems 8.14
Water supplies and pumps Appendix E5 to E6 Widths of escape routes Table 2.3
Stability Store rooms 4.5, 5.46, 8.11
B3 requirement page 61 Storey exits 2.23
See also Integrity Access to 2.14
Stadia 0.13 Central core 2.12, Diagram 2.4
See also Assembly and recreation purpose group Defnition Appendix A
208 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 221 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Discounting 2.21 External walls 12.1
Division of corridors 2.26 Phased evacuation 3.20
Escape over fat roofs 2.32 Technical specifcation
Exit capacity 2.21–2.23 Defnition Appendix A
Storeys Tenancies
Capacity of escape stairs Table 3.2 See Separate occupancies/uses
Defnition Appendix A Thatched roofs 14.9
Divided into diferent occupancies 2.17 Theatres 0.13
Divided into diferent uses 2.16, 3.2 See also Assembly and recreation purpose group
Height of top storey Diagram D6 Thermoplastic materials
Number Diagram D5 Classifcation Appendix B12
Stretched skin ceilings Defnition Appendix A
Thermoplastic material 6.18 Fire performance Appendix B10–B13
Strong rooms Glazing 6.14
Smoke vents 18.4 Lighting difusers
Structural frames Forming part of a ceiling 6.16–6.17
Fire resistance 7.1, Table B1 Layout restrictions Diagrams 6.2 to 6.3
Structural loadbearing elements Suspended ceilings 6.17, Appendix B11, Table 6.2
See Elements of structure Roofights 6.15, 14.6, Table 6.2
Student residential accommodation Junction of compartment wall with roof 8.26
Fire detection and alarm systems 1.18 Layout restrictions Diagrams 6.2 to 6.3
Regulation 7 (building materials) 12.15 Limitations on spacing and size Diagram 14.1
Stud walls Limitations on use and boundary distance
Cavity barriers 9.14 Table 14.3
See also Partitions Suspended or stretched skin ceiling 6.18
Study bedrooms Tiles and slates
Floor space factors Table D1 Fire-stopping at junctions 9.15, Diagram 8.2
Substrates Timber structural components
Fire tests Appendix B8 Compartments 8.16
Lining to wall or ceiling Appendix B13 Toilets
Suppliers Escape lighting Table 5.1
Certifcation and accreditation page iii, 1.16 Exits in central core Diagram 2.4
Suspended ceilings See also Sanitary accommodation
Defnition Appendix A Transformer chambers
Enclosure of corridors by partitions 2.25 Final exits clear of openings 5.24
Fire resistance 6.7, Table B1 See also Places of special fre hazard
Lighting difusers 6.16–6.17, Appendix B11, Diagrams Travel distance
6.1 to 6.3, Table 6.2 Defnition Appendix A
Spaces above 6.17 Horizontal escape 2.3–2.7, Table 2.1
Thermoplastic material 6.18 Dead end Diagram 2.1
Switch room/battery room Inner rooms 2.11
Escape lighting Table 5.1 Residential care homes 2.37
Single escape routes and exits 2.6–2.7
T
Small premises 4.6, Table 4.1
Measurement methods Appendix D3
Tall buildings
Vertical escape 3.23
Escape stairs
Small premises Diagrams 4.2 to 4.4
Added protection 3.34
Width 3.19, 3.22, Table 3.3
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 209
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 222 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Turning circles See also Smoke vents
Fire service vehicle access 15.10, Diagram 15.3, Ventilation ducts 10.6–10.11
Table 15.2 Appliances
Turnstiles Openings in compartment walls or foors 8.31,
Escape routes 5.15 10.23
Turntable ladders Passing through fre-separating elements 10.12–10.16
See High reach appliances In protected shafts 8.36
Openings in enclosure 8.39
U
Protection of openings 10.24
Venues for pop concerts
UKAS
Floor space factors Table D1
Independent certifcation schemes Appendix B5
See also Assembly and recreation purpose group
Uninsulated glazing
Verges
See Glazing
Roof measurements Diagram D3
Unprotected areas 13.3, 13.6–13.16
Vertical escape 3.1–3.41
Acceptable unprotected area Table 13.1
See also Escape stairs; Evacuation lifts; Protected
Calculation 13.17–13.23
stairways
Efect of sprinkler systems 13.22
Vision panels
External wall 1000mm or more from relevant
Doors on escape routes 5.14
boundary 13.9, 13.17
Inner rooms 2.11
External wall within 1000mm of relevant
Voice alarm systems 1.11, 1.15, 3.21
boundary 13.8
Voice communication systems
Boundaries 13.4–13.5, Diagrams 13.1 to 13.3
Emergency (EVC) 3.21
Combustible material as external surface 13.7,
Volume of building or part
Diagram 13.4
Measurement Diagram D2
Defnition Appendix A
External wall of stairway in a protected shaft 13.10 W
Fire resistance 13.6–13.7
Large uncompartmented buildings 13.12 Waiting rooms
Small unprotected areas 13.11, Diagram 13.5 Floor space factors Table D1
Unwired glass Wall climber
Roofights 14.8 Fire protection of lift installations 5.36
uPVC Walls
Pipe openings 10.5 Cavities 6.17, 9.10
Roofights 14.7 Cavity barriers in stud walls or partitions 9.14
TP(a) rigid sheet Appendix B12 In common to two buildings 8.2, 8.18
Defnition 6.2–6.4
V
Elements of structure 7.3, 7.4
Fire resistance 7.1, 12.2, Table B1
Vehicle access
Inner rooms 2.11
See Fire service facilities
Linings 6.2–6.4
Ventilation
See also Cavity walls; Compartment walls;
Car parks 11.2–11.5
External walls
Independent power supply 11.5
Warehouses
Mechanical 10.6–10.11
See Storage and other non-residential purpose
Protected lobbies 3.35
group
Protected shafts 8.33
Conveying gas 8.38
Refuse chutes and storage 5.44
210 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 223 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Warning
For hearing impaired people 1.15
See also Fire alarm systems; Voice alarm systems
Washrooms
Protected shafts and stairways 3.38, 8.32
Water supplies
Fire hydrants 16.12–16.13
Sprinkler systems Appendix E5 to E6
WCs
See Toilets
Weather protection
External escape stairs 3.32
Wet mains
See Fire mains
Windowless accommodation
Escape lighting Table 5.1
Windows
Defnitions of walls and ceilings 6.3, 6.6
External fre spread 12.22
Thermoplastic glazing 6.14
See also Roofights
Wiring
See Electrical wiring
Wood
See Timber structural components
Wood shingles 14.9
Workmanship and materials
See Materials and workmanship
Workshops
Floor space factors Table D1
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 211
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 224 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 225 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
List of Approved Documents
The following documents have been published to give guidance on how to meet the Building
Regulations. You can f nd the date of the edition approved by the Secretary of State at www.gov.uk.
Approved Document A Approved Document L
Structure Conservation of fuel and power
Volume 1: Dwellings
Approved Document B
Fire safety Approved Document L
Volume 1: Dwellings Conservation of fuel and power
Volume 2: Buildings other than dwellings
Approved Document B
Fire safety Approved Document M
Volume 2: Buildings other than dwellings Access to and use of buildings
Volume 1: Dwellings
Approved Document C
Site preparation and resistance to Approved Document M
contaminants and moisture Access to and use of buildings
Volume 2: Buildings other than dwellings
Approved Document D
Toxic substances Approved Document O
Overheating
Approved Document E
Resistance to the passage of sound Approved Document P
Electrical safety – Dwellings
Approved Document F
Ventilation Approved Document Q
Volume 1: Dwellings Security – Dwellings
Approved Document F Approved Document R
Ventilation Infrastructure for electronic communications
Volume 2: Buildings other than dwellings Volume 1: Physical infrastructure and network
connection for new dwellings
Approved Document G
Sanitation, hot water safety and water Approved Document R
efciency Infrastructure for electronic communications
Volume 2: Physical infrastructure for high-
Approved Document H
speed electronic communications networks
Drainage and waste disposal
Approved Document S
Approved Document J
Infrastructure for the charging of
Combustion appliances and fuel storage
electric vehicles
systems
Approved Document T
Approved Document K
Toilet accommodation
Protection from falling, collision and impact
Approved Document 7
Materials and workmanship
O N L I N E V E R S I O N

--- Page 226 ---

O N L I N E V E R S I O N
The Building Regulations 2010, Approved Documents are available from:
RIBA Books
Online: www.architecture.com/ribabooks
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7496 8383
Email: sales@books.architecture.com
© Crown Copyright 2025
The content of this publication, excluding logos, may be If you require this publication in an alternative format,
reproduced free of charge in any format or medium for please email: alternativeformats@levellingup.gov.uk.
research, private study or for internal circulation within
Copyright in the typographical arrangement, excluding
an organisation. This is subject to it being reproduced
logos, of the cover and internal page layouts of this
accurately and not used in a misleading context. The
publication rests with the Publisher.
material must be acknowledged as Crown copyright and
the title and edition of the publication specified. This
document/publication is value added. You may re-use the
content (not including logos) free of charge in any format
or medium, under the terms of the Open Government
Licence. To view this licence, visit:
http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-
government-licence/ or write to the Information Policy
Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or
e-mail: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
O N L I N E V E R S I O N